<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Test… Test… Test… 1, 2, 3… Right.

<<COUGH>>
My name is Jonathan Sims. I work for the Magnus Institute, London, an organisation dedicated to academic research into the esoteric and the paranormal. The head of the Institute, Mr. Elias Bouchard, has employed me to replace the previous Head Archivist, one Gertrude Robinson, who has recently passed away.

I have been working as a researcher at the Institute for four years now and am familiar with most of our more significant contracts and projects. Most reach dead ends, predictably enough, as incidents of the supernatural, such as they are - and I always emphasise there are very few genuine cases - tend to resist easy conclusions. When an investigation has gone as far as it can, it is transferred to the Archives.

Now, the Institute was founded in 1818, which means that the Archive contains almost 200 years of case files at this point. Combine that with the fact that most of the Institute prefers the ivory tower of pure academia to the complicated work of dealing with statements or recent experiences and you have the recipe for an impeccably organised library and an absolute mess of an archive. This isn’t necessarily a problem - modern filing and indexing systems are a real wonder, and all it would need is a half-decent archivist to keep it in order. Gertrude Robinson was apparently not that archivist.

From where I am sitting, I can see thousands of files. Many spread loosely around the place, others crushed into unmarked boxes. A few have dates on them or helpful labels such as 86-91 G/H. Not only that, but most of these appear to be handwritten or produced on a typewriter with no accompanying digital or audio versions of any sort. In fact, I believe the first computer to ever enter this room is the laptop that I brought in today. More importantly, it seems as though little of the actual investigations have been stored in the Archives, so the only thing in most of the files are the statements themselves.

It is going to take me a long, long time to organise this mess. I’ve managed to secure the services of two researchers to assist me. Well, technically three, but I don’t count Martin as he’s unlikely to contribute anything but delays. I plan to digitise the files as much as possible and record audio versions, though some will have to be on tape recorder, as my attempts to get them on my laptop have met with… significant audio distortions.

Alongside this Tim, Sasha and, yes, I suppose, Martin will be doing some supplementary investigation to see what details may be missing from what we have. I’ll try to present these in as succinct a fashion as I can at the end of each statement. I can, unfortunately, promise no order in regards to date or theme of the statements that are recorded, and can only apologies to any future researcher attempting to use these files for their own investigations.

That’s probably enough time spent making my excuses for the state of this place, and I suppose we have to begin somewhere.

Statement of Nathan Watts, regarding an encounter on Old Fishmarket Close, Edinburgh. Original statement given April 22nd 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
This all happened a couple of years ago, so I apologise if some of the details are a bit off. I mean, I feel like I remember it clearly but sometimes things are so weird that you start to doubt yourself. Still, I suppose weird is kind of what you guys do, right?

So I’m studying at the University of Edinburgh. Biochemistry, specifically, and I was in my second year at the time this happened. I wasn’t in any sort of university accommodation at this point, and was renting a student flat down in Southside with a few other second years.

To be honest, I didn’t hang out with them much. I took a gap year before matriculating, and my birthday’s in the wrong part of September, so I was nearly two years older than most of my peers when I started my course. I got on with them fine, you understand, but I tended to end up hanging out with some of the older students.

That’s why I was at the party in the first place. Michael MacAulay, a good friend of mine, had just been accepted to do a Master’s degree in Earth Sciences so we decided a celebration was in order. Well, maybe ‘party’ isn’t quite the right word, we just kind of invaded the Albanach down on the Royal Mile, and drank long enough and loud enough that eventually we had the back area to ourselves. Now, I don’t know how well you know the drinking holes of Edinburgh, but the Albanach has a wide selection of some excellent single malts, and I may have slightly overindulged. I have vague memories of Mike suggesting I slow down, to which I responded by roundly swearing at him for failing to properly celebrate his own good news. Or words to that effect.

Long story short, I was violently ill around midnight, and made the decision to walk the route home. It wasn’t far to my flat, maybe half an hour if I’d been sober, and the night was cool enough that I remember having a hope the chill would perk me up some. I headed for the Cowgate and the quickest way to get there from the Royal Mile is down Old Fishmarket Close. Now, I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you that there are some steep hills in Edinburgh but Old Fishmarket Close is exceptional, even by those standards. At times it must reach a thirty or forty degree angle, which is hard enough to navigate when you don’t have that much scotch inside you. As I have mentioned, I had quite a lot, so it probably wasn’t that surprising when I took a rather nasty tumble about halfway down the street.

In retrospect, the fall wasn’t that bad compared to what it could have been, but at the time, it really shook me up, and left me with some nasty bruises. I picked myself up as best I could, checked I hadn’t seriously injured myself, no broken bones or anything, and decided to roll a cigarette to calm myself. That was when I heard it.

“Can I have a cigarette?”

I was startled out of my thoughts by the words as I thought I had been alone. Quickly trying to compose myself and looking around, I noticed a small alleyway on the opposite side of the street. It was very narrow and completely unlit with a short staircase leading up. I could see a light fixture a little way up the wall at its entrance, but it either wasn’t working or wasn’t turned on, meaning that beyond a few steps the alley was shrouded in total darkness. Stood there, a couple of stairs from the street, was a figure. It was hard to tell much about them as they were mostly in the shadows, though if I’d had to guess I would have said the voice sounded male. They seemed to sway, ever so slightly, as I watched, and I assumed that they, like me, were probably a little bit drunk.

I lit my own cigarette and held out my tobacco towards them, though I didn’t approach, and asked if they were ok with a roll-up. The figure didn’t move except to continue that gentle swaying. Writing it down now, it seems so obvious that something was wrong. If I hadn’t been so drunk, maybe I’d have noticed quicker, but even when the stranger asked the question again, “Can I have a cigarette?” utterly without intonation, still I didn’t understand why I was so uneasy.

I stared at the stranger and as my eyes began to adjust I could make out more details. I could see that their face appeared blank, expressionless, and their skin seemed damp and slightly sunken, like they had a bad fever. The swaying was more pronounced now, seeming to move from the waist, side to side, back and forth. By this point, I had finished rolling a second cigarette, and gingerly held it out towards them, but I didn’t get any closer. I had decided that if this weirdo wanted a cigarette, they were going to need to come out of the creepy alleyway. They didn’t come closer, didn’t make any movement at all except for that damn swaying. For some reason the thought of an anglerfish popped into my head, the single point of light dangled into the darkness, hiding the thing that lures you in.

“Can I have a cigarette?” It spoke again in the same flat voice and I realised exactly what was wrong. Its mouth was closed, had been the whole time. Whatever was repeating that question, it wasn’t the figure in the alleyway. I looked at their feet and saw that they weren’t quite touching the ground. The stranger’s form was being lifted, ever so slightly, and moved gently from side to side.

I dropped the cigarette and grabbed for my phone, trying to turn on the torch. I don’t know why I didn’t run or what I hoped to see in that alley, but I wanted to get a better look. As soon as I took out my phone, the figure disappeared. It sort of folded at the waist and vanished back into the darkness, as if a string had gone taut and pulled it back. I turned on the torch and stared into the alley, but I saw nothing. Just silence and darkness. I staggered back up to the Royal Mile, which still had lights and people, and found a taxi to take me home.

I slept late the next day. I’d made sure I didn’t have any lectures or classes, as I had intended to be sleeping off a heavy night of drinking, which I guess I was, although it was that bizarre encounter that kept playing in my mind. And so, after making my way through two litres of water, some painkillers and a very greasy breakfast, I felt human enough to leave my flat and go to investigate the place in daylight. The result was unenlightening. There were no marks, no bloodstains, nothing to indicate that the swaying figure had ever been there at all. The only thing I did find was an unsmoked Marlboro Red cigarette, lying just below the burned out light fixture.

Beyond that, I didn’t really know what to do. I did as much research as I could on the place, but couldn’t find anyone who’d had any experience similar to mine, and there didn’t seem to be any folklore or urban legends I could find out about Old Fishmarket Close. The few friends I told about what happened just assumed I’d been accosted by some stranger and the alcohol had made it seem much weirder than it was. I tried to explain that I’ve never had hallucinations while drunk, and that there was no way this guy had just been a normal person, but they always gave me one of those looks, halfway between pity and concern, and I’d shut up.

I never did find out anything else about it, but a few days later I saw some missing person appeals go up around campus. Another student had disappeared. John Fellowes, his name was, though I didn’t really know the guy and couldn’t tell you much about him, except for two things that struck me as very important: he had been at that same party and, as far as I remembered, had still been there when I left. The other was just that, well, on the photo they’d used for his missing persons appeal, I couldn’t help but notice that there was a pack of Marlboro Red cigarettes poking out of his pocket.

I haven’t quit smoking, but I do find that I take a lot more taxis now if I find myself out too late.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

The investigation at the time, and the follow-up we’ve done over the last couple have days, have found no evidence to corroborate Mr. Watts’ account of his experience. I was initially inclined to re-file this statement in the ‘Discredited’ section of the Archive, a new category I’ve created that will, I suspect, be housing the majority of these files.

However, Sasha did some digging into the police reports of the time and it turns out that between 2005 and 2010, when Mr. Watts’ encounter supposedly took place, there were six disappearances in and around the Old Fishmarket Close: Jessica McEwen in November 2005, Sarah Baldwin in August 2006, Daniel Rawlings in December of the same year, then Ashley Dobson and Megan Shaw in May and June of 2008. Then finally, as Mr. Watts mentioned, John Fellowes in March 2010. All six disappearances remain unsolved. Baldwin and Shaw were definitely smokers, but there’s no evidence either way about the others, if they’re even connected.

Sasha did find one other thing, specifically in the case of Ashley Dobson. It was a copy of the last photograph taken by her phone and sent to her sister Siobhan. The caption was “check out this drunk creeper lol”, but the picture is of a darkened, apparently empty, alleyway, with stairs leading up into it. It appears to be the same alleyway which Mr. Watts described in his statement, the one that, according to the maps of the area, leads to Tron Square, but there doesn’t seem to be anyone in the photograph at all.

Sasha took the liberty of running it through some editing programs, though, and increasing the contrast appears to reveals the outline of a long, thin hand, roughly at what would be waist level on a male of average height. I find it oddly hard to shake off the impression that it’s beckoning.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Joshua Gillespie, regarding his time in possession of an apparently empty wooden casket. Original statement given November 22nd, 1998. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It started when I was in Amsterdam for a holiday with a few of my friends. Everything you’re thinking right now, you’re right. We were all early twenties, just graduated and decided to spend a couple of weeks going crazy on the continent, so you can almost certainly fill in all the blanks yourself. There were very few points where I’d say that I was entirely sober and even fewer where I acted like it, though I wasn’t quite as bad as some of my friends who had a hard time handling themselves at times.

This may have been why I headed out alone that morning - no idea of the exact date but it was sometime in mid-May. The others were sleeping off their assorted hangovers and I decided to head out into the beautiful sunshine of that Netherlands morning and take a walk. Before graduating from Cardiff with the others, I had been studying Architecture, so was looking forward to spending a few hours by myself to wander, and really take in the buildings of central Amsterdam. I was not disappointed - it’s a beautiful city, but I realised too late that I hadn’t taken any map or guidebook with me, and an hour or two later I was thoroughly lost.

I wasn’t particularly worried, as it was still mid-afternoon at this point, and getting lost in the backstreets had kind of been what I was trying to do, but I still decided I’d better make an actual effort to find my way back to where my friends and I were staying off Elandsstraat. I managed it eventually, but my inability to speak Dutch meant I spent a good hour riding the wrong way on the various trams.

By the time I got back to Elandsstraat it was starting to get dark and I was feeling quite stressed, so I decided to pop into one of the cafés to relax before joining up with my friends. I couldn’t say for sure exactly how long I was in there, but I do know it had gotten fully dark by the time I noticed I wasn’t sat at my table alone.

I’ve tried to describe the man who now sat opposite me many times, but it’s difficult. He was short, very short, and felt like he had an odd density to him. His hair was brownish, I think, cut quite short, and he was clean shaven. His face and dress was utterly unremarkable, and the more I try to think of exactly what he looked like, the harder it is to picture him clearly. To be honest, though, I’m inclined to blame that on the drugs.

The man introduced himself as John, and asked how I was. I replied as best I could, and he nodded, saying he also was an Englishman inside a foreign land. I remember he used that exact phrase because it struck me at the time as very odd. He said he was from Liverpool, though I don’t recall him having any sort of accent, and that he was looking for a friend who he could rely on for a favour.

Now, high as I was, I got suspicious as soon as he said that last part and I started to shake my head. John said it was nothing too onerous, just looking after a package for him until he had some friends pick it up, and that he would pay well. I thought he was talking about smuggling, and was about to refuse again when he reached into his… jacket, I think? and pulled out an envelope. Inside was £10,000. I know; I counted it. I knew it was a stupid move but I kept remembering my friend Richard telling me how easy it had been to get a pound of hash through customs on his first trip to Holland, and holding that much cash in my hands…

I said yes. John smiled, thanked me, and said that he would be in touch. He left the coffee shop and I immediately started panicking about what I had agreed to. I wanted to chase after him and return the money, but something weighed me down, kept me locked into my seat. I just sat there for a long time.

I don’t remember much about the next few days except worrying about when I’d see John again. I was careful not to spend any of the money he’d given me, and had decided to return it as soon as he turned up. I’d say I had made a mistake and couldn’t take his money or look after anything from him. I tried to enjoy myself, but it was like this shadow hanging over me, and I couldn’t stop thinking about it. I waited for days, right up until the end of our trip, but he never showed up. I obsessively checked my suitcase before boarding the plane home, just in case someone had snuck something into it, but there was nothing new in there. I flew back to England with my friends still high and £10,000 tucked into my coat pocket. It was surreal.

It wasn’t until almost a year later that I felt confident enough to actually spend any of the money. I’d moved down to work for a small architects’ firm in Bournemouth on the south coast. It was an entry level job and the pay wasn’t great, but it was the only offer I got in my chosen field, so I moved down there with the hopes of getting some experience and a better position in a year or two.

Bournemouth was a decent-size seaside town, though much less idyllic than I’d assumed it would have been, but rents for a place on my own were a little bit out of my price range, given my starting pay grade. I didn’t know anyone else down there, and wasn’t keen to share my space with strangers, so I decided to use some of the money I’d been given in Amsterdam the previous year. I reasoned they were unlikely to find me at this stage - I’d not given John any of my details when he spoke to me, not even my name, and if they hadn’t been able to find me over the course of the last year, it was doubtful they’d be able to track me here. Also, if it had been drug smuggling, as I suspected, £10,000 probably wasn’t so much money to them that they’d track me this far over it. Also, and looking back this sounds stupid, but I’d just grown a beard and thought it would be hard for anyone to recognise me as the same guy. So I spent a bit of John’s money on renting a nice one-bedroom flat in the Triangle, near the town centre, and moved in almost immediately.

About a week later, I was in my kitchen cutting up some fruit for breakfast, and I heard the doorbell ring. I answered it to see two red-faced delivery men. Between them they carried an immense package, which they’d clearly had to manoeuvre up the narrow stairs of the building I lived in. They asked if I was Joshua Gillespie, and when I said yes they said they had a delivery addressed to me and pushed past into the hall.

They didn’t seem to be from any delivery company I knew and they weren’t wearing any uniforms. I tried to ask them some questions, but as soon as they’d placed the box on the floor, they turned around and walked out. They were both well over six feet tall and very imposing, so there was little I could have done to stop them leaving even if I’d wanted to. The door slammed behind them, and I was left alone with this package.

It was about two metres long, maybe one metre wide and roughly the same deep. It was sealed with parcel tape and written on the top was my name and address in thick curving letters but there was no return address or postmark of any sort. I was starting to risk being late for work at this point, but I decided I couldn’t bring myself to leave without seeing what was inside, so I fetched the knife from my kitchen counter and cut the tape keeping the box closed.

Inside was a coffin. I don’t know what I expected but it wasn’t that. My knife fell to the floor and I just stared at it in mute surprise. It was made of unvarnished, pale yellow wood and had a thick metal chain wrapped around it, which was closed at the top with a heavy iron padlock. The lock was closed but had the key sitting inside it. I started to reach for it, when I noticed two other things on the coffin lid. The first was a piece of paper, folded in half and tucked under the chain, which I took. The other was the presence of three words, scratched deep into the wood of the casket in letters three inches high. They read: DO NOT OPEN.

I withdrew my hand from the padlock slowly, unsure what I was supposed to do. At some point I must have sat down, as I found myself on the floor, propped up against the wall, staring at this bizarre thing that had inexplicably turned up at my home. I remembered the piece of paper at this point and unfolded it, but it simply read “Delivered with gratitude - J”. Strange as it sounds, it was only then I made the connection with the man I’d met in Amsterdam. He’d told me wanted someone to look after a package for a while. Was this the package he was talking about? Was I to be looking after a corpse? Who was coming to pick it up? When?

I called in sick to work, and just sat there, watching the coffin for what might have been minutes or might have been hours. I just had no idea what to do. Eventually I steeled myself and moved towards it, until my face was just inches away from the lid. I took a deep breath, trying to see if I could smell anything from inside. Nothing. If there was a dead body in there, it hadn’t started to smell yet. Not that I really knew what a dead body smelled like. It was early summer at this point, which would mean they must have died recently. If there was a body in there at all. As I got up, my hand brushed the wood of the coffin and I realised it was warm. Very warm, like it had been lying in the sun for hours. Something about it made my flesh crawl slightly and I withdrew my hand quickly.

I decided to make a cup of tea. It was something of a relief, standing next to the kettle, as from that angle I couldn’t see the thing out in the hall. I could just ignore it. I didn’t move even after I’d filled my mug; I just stood there sipping my tea, not even noticing that it was still far too hot to drink comfortably. When I finally got the nerve to step back out into the hall, the coffin still lay there, unmoving.

I finally made a decision and, firmly gripping the padlock, I removed the key, and placed it on the hall table next to the door. I then took hold of the coffin and chain and started to pull it further into my flat. It was weird to touch it: the wood still had that unsettling warmth to it, but the chain was as cold as you’d expect from a thick piece of iron, and apparently hadn’t taken on any of the heat. I didn’t have any cupboards with enough space to hold the thing, so in the end I just dragged it into my living room and pushed it up against the wall, as out of the way as possible. I cut up the cardboard box it had been sealed in and put it with the rubbish outside. And just like that I had, apparently, started storing a coffin in my home.

At the time I think I assumed it was full of drugs, at least as far as I assumed anything about the situation. Why anyone would store something in such a noticeable way or with a total stranger like me, these weren’t questions I could even guess at an answer to, but I decided it was best to think about it as little as possible. For the next few days I avoided my living room, as I found being so close to the thing made me nervous. I was also staying alert for the smell of any sort of rot, which might indicate there was something dead inside the coffin after all. I never smelled anything, though, and as the days passed I found myself noticing my mysterious charge less and less.

About a week after it arrived, I finally started using my living room again. I’d watch TV, mostly, and keep half an eye on the unmoving casket. At one point I got so cocky as to actually use it as a table. I was drinking a glass of orange juice at the time and absent-mindedly placed it on top of the lid, not really realising exactly what I had done. At least not until I heard movement from underneath it. I froze, listening intently and staring, willing myself to have been imagining things. But then it came again - a soft but insistent scratching, just below where I had placed my glass. It was slow and deliberate and caused gently ripples to spread across the surface of my juice.

Needless to say I was terrified. More than that, I was confused. The coffin had been lying in my living room, chained and unmoving, for well over a week at this point. If there had been anything living in there when it was delivered, it seemed unlikely it would still be alive. And why hadn’t it made any sound before if there was something in there capable of movement? I gently picked up my glass and immediately the scratching stopped. I waited for some time, considering my options, before I placed it back down on the other end of the lid. It took about four seconds for the scratching to start up again, now more insistently.

When I took the glass away this time, it didn’t stop for another five minutes. I decided against doing any further experiments, and instead made the very deliberate decision to ignore it. I felt at that point I either needed to use the heavy iron key to open it and see for myself what was in there, or follow the gouged instruction and resolve myself to never look inside. Some might call me a coward, but I decided on the latter, that I would interact with it as little as possible while it lived in my house. Well, I guess lived may be the wrong term.

I knew I’d made the right decision the next time it rained, and I heard the box begin to moan. It was a Saturday, and I was spending the day staying in and doing some light reading. I had few friends in Bournemouth, something about having a mysterious coffin lying in my living room made me reluctant to make the sort of connections that might lead to people coming round, and so I spent most of my free time alone.

I didn’t watch a lot of television even before my living room was taken over with storing this thing, and so I now found myself sat in my room reading quite a lot. I remember I had just started Michael Crichton’s The Lost World at the time, and it started raining outside. It was a hard, heavy rain, the sort that falls straight down with no wind to disturb it, until everything is dark and wet. It was barely past midday, but I remember the sky was so overcast and gloomy that I had to get up to turn on the light. And that was when I heard it.

It was a low, gentle sound. I’ve seen Dawn of the Dead, I know what the groans of the undead are meant to sound like, but it wasn’t that at all. It was almost… melodious. It sounded almost like singing, if it was muffled by twenty feet of hard-packed soil. At first I thought it might have been coming from one of the other flats in my building, but as it went on, and the hairs on my arms began to stand on end I knew, I just knew, where it was coming from. I walked to the living room and stood in the doorway, watching as the sealed wooden box continued to moan its soft, musical sound out at the rain.

There was nothing to be done. I’d made my decision not to open it, and this certainly did not make me want to reconsider that. So I just went back to my bedroom, put on some music and turned it up loud enough to drown out the sounds.

And so it continued for a few months. Whatever was in the casket would scratch at anything placed on top of it and moan whenever it rained, and that was that. I suppose it goes to show that you can get used to anything if you have to, no matter how bizarre. I occasionally considered trying to get rid of it, or finding people like you guys to investigate, but in the end I decided that I was actually more afraid of whoever was responsible for entrusting me with the coffin than I was of the actual coffin itself. So I kept it secret.

The only thing that worried me was sleeping. I think it gave me bad dreams. I don’t remember my dreams, never have, and if I was getting nightmares, they were no different - I didn’t remember them and I certainly don’t now. But I know I kept waking up in a panic, clutching at my throat and struggling to breath. I also started sleepwalking. The first time that happened it was the cold that woke me up. It was the middle of winter and I tend not to keep the heating on when I’m asleep. It took me a few seconds to fully process where I was. I was standing in the dark, in my living room, over the coffin. What concerned me more about the situation was the fact that, when I awoke, I seemed to be holding the key to it in my hand.

Obviously this worried me. I even went to my GP about it, who referred me to the sleep clinic at the nearby hospital, but the problems never recurred in a clinical setting. I decided to hide the key in more and more difficult to access places, but still I kept waking up with it, and I was starting to panic. When I awoke one morning to find I’d actually placed the key within the lock and was, as far as I could tell, moments from opening it, I knew I had to find a solution.

In the end, what I took to doing was perhaps a bit elaborate, but it seemed to work: I would place the key within a bowl of water and then put it in the freezer, encasing it in a solid block of ice. I still sometimes found myself trying to get to the key in my sleep, but the chill of the ice always woke me up long before I could do anything with it. And in the end it just became yet another part of my routine.

I lived like that for almost a year and a half. It’s funny how fear can just become as routine as hunger - at a certain point I just accepted it. My first clue that my time keeping the coffin was coming to an end was when it began to rain and there was silence.

I didn’t notice at first, as my habit at that point had been to put on the music as soon as the weather began to turn, but after a few minutes, I realised that there wasn’t anything to drown out. I turned off my music and went to check. The living room was silent. Then came a knock at the door. The sound was light and unobtrusive but it rang out like thunder in the quiet flat. I knew what I’d see as soon as I opened the door, and I was right. John and the two delivery men stood there.

I wasn’t surprised to see them, as I say, but they actually seemed quite surprised to see me. John had to take a second to look me up and down, almost in disbelief, as I asked if they’d come to collect their coffin.

He said that they had, and he hoped it hadn’t been too much trouble. I told him where he could stick it, and he didn’t seem to have an answer for that. He did seem genuinely impressed, however, when I got the key out of the freezer. I didn’t even try to thaw it - I was so eager to have this thing out of my life that I just dropped the bowl of ice on the floor and shattered it. I watched as John picked the icy key off the floor and I told them it was in the living room.

I didn’t follow them. I didn’t want to see what they did with the coffin. I didn’t want to see if they opened it. And when the screaming started, I didn’t want to see who was screaming or why. I only left the kitchen when the two delivery men carried the coffin past the door. I followed them down the stairs, and watched in the pouring rain as they locked it into a small van marked “Breekon and Hope Deliveries”. Then they drove away. There was no sign of John.

That was the last I heard of it. I got a new job and moved to London shortly afterwards, and now I just try not to think about it too much.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

It’s always nice to hear that my hometown is not entirely devoid of odd occurrences and eerie stories. Ice cream, beaches and boredom are all very well, but I’m glad to hear Bournemouth has at least a few apparitions to call its own. That said, the fact is Mr. Gillespie’s statement starts with drug use and continues on with the lack of corroborating witnesses being a central theme, which means that an eerie story is all that it is. When the Institute first investigated, it doesn’t look like they were able to find a single piece of evidence to support the existence of this scratched coffin, and to be honest I didn’t think it was worth wasting anyone’s time over now, nearly twenty years later.

That said, I did mention it to Tim yesterday, and apparently he did some digging of his own. Breekon and Hope did, in fact, exist, and were a courier service that operated until 2009, when they went into liquidation. They were based in Nottingham, however, significantly north of Bournemouth, and if they kept records of their deliveries, they are no longer available.

What is interesting, however, is the address Mr. Gillespie provided for the flat this all took place in. The housing association that ran it does keep extensive records on the tenants that have lived in their buildings going back some forty or fifty years. From what Tim could find, it appears that for the two years of his residence, Mr. Gillespie was the only person living in that entire building, with the other seven flats being utterly vacant. Nobody moved in following his departure, and the building was sold to a developer and demolished shortly after this statement was originally given.

Predictably, no-one who worked for that housing association in the 90s is still there, and despite Tim’s best efforts, we could get no explanation for why, in a building of that size, Mr. Gillespie spent almost two years living alone, save for an old wooden coffin.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Amy Patel, regarding the alleged disappearance of her acquaintance Graham Folger. Original statement given July 1st, 2007. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I first met Graham two years ago, more or less. It’s hard to say exactly when we first met or even started talking, as we were taking a class together at the time. I’m sure there was plenty of discussion or interaction before we learned each other’s names, but I started my course in September of 2005, so yeah, about two years. I had decided to take a Criminology course at Birkbeck University as a way of getting out of the rut with my office job - I’m an Associate Compliance Analyst at Deloitte, and if you think that sounds boring, well… yeah. It is. I knew a night course in Criminology wasn’t going to go anywhere, of course, even if I’d finished it. I just had to do something to find a bit of interest in my life, and it was either that or become an alcoholic, so…

Sorry, I’m going off topic. I initially found Graham a bit off-putting, to be honest. He was a chain smoker and wore far too much deodorant to try and cover the smell. He was a bit older than me, maybe ten years or so. I never asked his age, I mean, we weren’t that close, but he was starting to grey at the edges of his hair, and you could see that the tiredness on his face wasn’t just from missing a single night’s sleep. That’s not to say he was bad looking - he had a round, open sort of face and quite deep blue eyes, but very much not my type. He was well-spoken in group work, at least when he did speak, and I think it came up once that he’d been to Oxford, though I don’t know what college.

I’d noticed earlier that during lectures he always seemed to be scribbling furiously in a notebook even when the lecturer wasn’t speaking. At first, I just thought he was thorough, but I swear I watched him fill a whole A5 notebook in one lecture. I remember it was a talk on youth and the justice system where the speaker was so slow that it wouldn’t have filled that book even if Graham had been writing down literally every word. Not to mention I asked to borrow his notes once for an essay, and he gave me this weird look and said he didn’t take any notes.

So yeah, point is, I wouldn’t have called him a friend, but we got on alright. It was about four months into my course that I first encountered Graham outside of the university. I was riding the night bus home, having gone for a couple of drinks and missed the regular service. I live in Clapham, so there’s a pretty regular night bus service headed there. Of course, regular also means drunken angry vomiters, so yeah, I generally try to be unobtrusive, sitting in a seat at the back of the top floor.

It was there that I saw Graham. He was sat right at the front, staring out of the window. People-watching is one of my guilty pleasures, so I decided not to say hello, at least not right away. I wasn’t disappointed, either - he was stranger alone than he had ever been during class.

It was the middle of winter at this point, so the windows were solid with condensation, but he almost obsessively wiped it away from the one in front of him the moment it started to obscure his view. He seemed to be intently scanning the street for something, except that at times he would crane his neck to stare at the roofs of the buildings passing by. He seemed nervous, as well, and was breathing way faster than normal, which fogged up his window even more. It was slightly alarming to watch, to be honest, and I finally made up my mind to tell him I was there.

He jumped a bit when I greeted him, and I asked him if he was alright. He told me he didn’t usually stay out so late and found nighttime public transport unsettling. I sat next to him, and he seemed to get much more relaxed, so I didn’t push the issue.

We talked for awhile about nothing in particular, until the bus started to approach my stop. As I rose, I noticed that Graham had stood up at the exact same time as I had, and I realised with some discomfort that we must live at the same stop. I liked the guy fine, don’t get me wrong, but I still didn’t really feel ok with him knowing where I lived. But yeah, it was obvious that I’d gotten up to get off the bus, so I couldn’t really ride on to the next stop, and it wasn’t even that I felt unsafe with Graham, I’m just a private person.

I decided to just walk back with him as far as necessary and make sure he didn’t see what building I went into. Maybe we weren’t even walking in the same direction. Yeah, we were walking in exactly the same direction. We even seemed to be heading to the same street.

It was at that point I felt a hand grab my shoulder and throw me into the road. I don’t know how else to describe it, one moment I was walking along, the next I was flying towards the ground. It can’t have been Graham - he was in front of me at the time, and I would have sworn there was nobody else on the street. There weren’t any cars coming, but I hit my head hard. I think I must have been unconscious for a few seconds, because the next thing I remember is a panicky Graham on the phone to an ambulance. I tried to tell him I was alright, but didn’t really manage to get the words out, which, yeah, probably meant I wasn’t alright.

The ambulance arrived in pretty good time, considering it was London on a Friday night, and the paramedics gave me a look over. I was told that the injury itself wasn’t serious - apparently head wounds always bleed that much and it’s nothing to panic about - but that I did have quite a nasty concussion and shouldn’t be left alone for the next few hours.

Even though we were within sight of my door, I had for some reason settled upon the idea of Graham never knowing where I lived. In retrospect this was likely the concussion talking, but the upshot was I agreed to go back to Graham’s flat to recover. He was quite awkward about the whole thing, and took great pains to assure me that there was nothing untoward about the situation; apparently he was a gay, which I’ll admit did actually reassure me a bit. Still, it was clear this wasn’t how either of us had hoped to be ending our nights.

As it turned out, Graham’s flat was directly across the street from mine, just a couple of floors lower. I wondered if I could see my window from his, and I remember I had the odd thought that, if I had to look out, I’d need to be careful of his window box, as I could see the hooks attaching it to the frame. I asked him what he grew, and he gave me a look, as though my concussion had stopped me making sense again. I mean, maybe it had, because when I looked back at the window the hooks were gone, and there was no sign of any window box. At the time I put it down to my head wound, and even now I’m not sure.

The flat itself was a simple affair, quite big by London standards. It had only a few pieces of furniture and a lot of bookshelves, each covered with rows and rows of identical notebooks, with no apparent marking system or indication of contents. I started to ask about them, but my head throbbed and I didn’t feel up to any answer that might have been forthcoming.

Graham led me to the sofa and disappeared to fetch me an icepack and a mug of sugary tea. I graciously accepted both, though I wasn’t in much of a mood to talk. Graham clearly felt awkward enough with the silence to do the talking for both of us, and I learned more about him over the next hour than I’d ever had a desire to know. Apparently his parents had died in a car accident a few years previously and had left a great deal of money and ownership of this flat. He didn’t need to work anymore and so had found himself somewhat adrift, taking night college courses to pass the time and broaden his mind - his words, not mine. He said he was trying to figure out what to actually do with his life.

He talked on like this for a while but I stopped listening about that point, as I’d become enraptured by the table on which he’d placed my tea. It was an ornate wooden thing, with a snaking pattern of lines weaving their way around towards the centre. The pattern was hypnotic and shifted as I watched it, like an optical illusion. I found my eyes following the lines towards the middle of the table, where there was nothing but a small square hole. Graham noticed me staring, and told me that interesting antique furniture was one of his few true passions. Apparently he’d found the table in a second-hand shop during his student days and fallen in love with it. It had been in pretty bad shape but he’d spent a long time and a lot of money restoring it, though he’d never been able to figure out what was supposed to go in the centre. He assumed it was a separate piece and couldn’t track it down.

And yeah, like most of his conversation, I’d have found it dull even if I wasn’t concussed. But by this time, I was beginning to feel well enough to leave, and started to make my excuses to Graham. He expressed his concern, said it hadn’t been as long enough, as the medics suggested, but if I had to… Well, you get the picture. In the end I did leave, as I kept getting lost in the lines of the table, and the pipes outside of the window made such a weird noise that I didn’t think staying was actually going to help me recover.

I went straight home, making sure Graham couldn’t see me from his window, and spent a few hours watching TV until I recovered enough to go to sleep. By the time I woke up the next morning I was feeling more or less ok, though I kept a plaster on the cut on my forehead, and tried not to think too much about the previous night.

One evening a few days later, though, I found myself staring out of my window, the one that faced the street, and I remembered how close Graham lived. I looked to see if I could figure out which window was his and, yeah, sure enough, there it was. It was actually a remarkably clear view of his flat, and I could see him sat on the sofa, reading one of the notebooks from his bookshelves. I realised that if I could see him so clearly, he could likely see me just as well if he chose to look up, and, with some remnant of my apprehension from that Friday, I decided to turn off the light in my flat, so he wouldn’t see me if he looked up. And then, I went back to watching him.

Yeah, I know that sounds creepy. It really wasn’t meant to be. I said earlier that I really enjoy people-watching and, regardless of how boring he may have been to speak to, Graham was weirdly compelling to watch. So that’s just what I did. And not just that night, either. Yeah, there’s no non-sinister way to say that watching Graham became my hobby. It was strange, I’ll admit it. But I just couldn’t stop myself. I reasoned I wasn’t watching him with any purpose or malice in mind. It was purely out a detached interest in his life. And in my defence, I would have stopped a lot sooner if it hadn’t been for the bizarre things he would do. He would constantly reorder his journals, without any apparent system of organisation, most of the time without even opening them. Sometimes he would grab an apparently random notebook from the shelves and start scribbling in it, even though I could see that the page was already covered in writing.

Once, and I swear this is true, I saw him take one of his notebooks and start to tear out the pages one at a time. And then, slowly and deliberately, he ate them. It must have taken him three hours to get through the whole book, but he didn’t stop or pause, he just kept going.

Even when he wasn’t doing anything with the notebooks, there was an odd energy to him. From what I could see he was constantly on edge, and jumped every time any loud noise passed on the street below. A police siren, a breaking bottle, hell, I even saw him freak out over an ice-cream truck once. Each time he’d leap to his feet, run to the window and start looking out; wildly craning his neck from side to side. Sometimes he’d look up, but I’d learned his patterns well enough to avoid being spotted. Then, all at once, he’d decide that there was no problem and go back to whatever he was doing before.

And by “whatever he was doing before”, yeah, I mean nothing. He apparently didn’t have a television or a computer - the only books he seemed to own were his own notebooks, and I only ever saw him eat takeaway food. I don’t know how many times I watched him eat the same pizza - pepperoni with jalapeño peppers and anchovies. Yeah, I know. But the rest of the time he just sat there, smoking; sometimes looking into space, sometime staring at that wooden table of his. And yeah, I remembered the pattern was kind of hypnotic and I spent more than a couple of minutes staring at it myself when I was there, but he did almost nothing else.

Who knows, perhaps he had a rich and fulfilling life outside of the flat. He certainly left it regularly enough, and yeah, I wasn’t so far gone as to actually follow him. If fact, I always waited a good long while before leaving my own building to make sure I didn’t bump into him. I still didn’t want him to know where I lived, although now for very different reasons. In the end, though, it was a hobby, not an obsession, and often days would pass when I wouldn’t see Graham at all. Maybe there was stuff I missed that would have explained his behaviour. I just wish I’d missed what happened on April 7th. Then maybe I’d have just thought he’d moved on or… I don’t know. I just wish I hadn’t seen it.

Work had been intense for a couple of months, with so many late nights I’d had to drop out of my course. It was just as well, really, as I hadn’t actually spoken to Graham since the night I suffered my head injury. I think he still felt awkward about it, and I’d seen him do so many weird things alone in his flat that I think I’d have struggled to have a normal conversation with him. Anyway, this week I’d barely had time to eat, let alone do much in the way of Graham-watching, so when I got home at about half ten at night, my first thought was just to fall into bed. But it was Friday, and I’d drunk a huge amount of coffee to keep going at work, so yeah, I was wired and looking forward to a long lie-in the next day. So when I saw Graham’s light was still on, I decided to spend a relaxing few minutes checking in on him.

His light may have been on, but I couldn’t see him, and I wondered if perhaps he’d gone to bed and simply forgotten to turn it off. More likely he was just in the bathroom, so I decided to wait a while longer. As I stared at that window, I realised there was something… I don’t know, off about it. It looked different somehow, but I couldn’t figure out what it was.

Then I noticed it. At first, I’d just taken it to be a water pipe running down the side of the building, attached just below Graham’s open window. The light from the streetlamps didn’t reach up to his fourth floor flat, and the window ledge cast a shadow that stopped the light from the room illuminating it, but it was long, straight, dark, and from what I could see it just looked like a pipe, except I’d been watching that window for months now, and would have sworn that there had never been a pipe there before.

And as I stared at it, it moved. It started to bend, slowly, and I realised I was looking at an arm, a long, thin arm. As it bent the joint close to where the arm ended, I think I saw another joint further down, also moving, and bending what I can only assume were elbows; it hooked the end of the limb over through the window. When I say moved, that’s not quite right. It shifted. Like when you stare at one of those old magic eye paintings and you change from seeing one picture into seeing another.

I never saw anything I could actually call a hand, but still it pulled itself through his window. It took less than a second, and I didn’t get a good look at what it was, I just saw these… arms, legs? At least four of them, but there might have been more, and they kind of folded themselves through the window in a flash of mottled grey. I think that was the colour - it was mostly a silhouette, and if there was a body or head, it shifted inside faster than I could see it. The moment it was inside, the light in Graham’s flat went out, and the window slammed down behind it.

So yeah, I just kind of stood there for a long time, trying to process what I’d just seen. I could make out some vague movements from inside Graham’s flat, but couldn’t see anything clearly. I finally decided I had to phone the police, though I didn’t have any idea what to tell them. In the end I simply said I’d seen someone suspicious climbing in through a fourth floor window at his address and hung up before they could ask me who was calling. Then I waited and watched the darkened flat opposite. I couldn’t look away - I was convinced that if I stopped staring that… whatever the hell it was would fold itself back out, reach over and step into my home. Nothing came out.

About ten minutes later I saw a police car driving up the street. No sirens, no flashing lights, but they were here, and right away I started to feel better. Looking up, though, I saw the light had come on in Graham’s flat. There was no sign of the thing I’d seen climb in, but as the police pressed the buzzer outside his building, I saw someone walking towards the door to let them in. It wasn’t Graham.

I can’t stress enough how much this was not Graham. He looked completely different. He was maybe a few inches shorter and had a long, square face topped with curly blond hair, where Graham’s had been dark and cut short. He was dressed in Graham’s clothes, though; I recognised the shirt from my months of watching, but he was not Graham. I watched as Not-Graham walked to the door and let the two police officers in. They talked for a while, and Not-Graham looked concerned and together they started to search the flat. I watched, waiting for the thing to emerge, or for them to find the real Graham, but they didn’t.

At one point I saw one of the police pick up a dark red shape that I recognised as a passport. My heart beat faster as a saw her open it and look at Not-Graham, clearly comparing, waiting for the moment when she detected the impostor. But instead she just laughed, shook Not-Graham’s hand, and they left.

I watched the police car drive away, feeling a sense of helplessness, and when I looked up, he was standing at Graham’s window, looking back at me. I stood there frozen as his wide, staring eyes met mine and a cold, toothy smile spread across his face. Then in one swift motion he drew the curtains, and was gone.

I didn’t sleep that night, and I never saw Graham again. I saw this new person, though, all the time. For the next week I’d see him taking out large, heavy-looking rubbish bags several times a day. It took me a while to realise he was disposing of Graham’s old notebooks, but soon enough the flat was empty of them. I think he did other redecorating, but I never got a good look, as the only time he had his curtains open was when he was staring intently at my flat, which he now did every night. I tried to find evidence of the old Graham, but anything I could find online with a picture - it was always a picture of this new person. I even asked some of my old classmates, but none of them seemed to remember him at all.

Eventually I moved. I really liked my old place in Clapham, but yeah, it just got too much. The last straw was when I was leaving for work one morning, and didn’t realise until too late that Not-Graham had left his building at the same time. He greeted me by name, and his voice was nothing like it should have been. I started to make my excuses and hurry away, but he just stared at me, and smiled.

“Isn’t it funny, Amy, how you can live so near and never notice. I’ll need to return the visit someday.”

I moved out a week later, and I never saw him again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I’d be tempted to dismiss this as hallucination resulting from long-term head trauma complications, but Tim came through with this one and managed to get hold of Ms. Patel’s medical records. God knows how he got them, but he’d better not be using Institute funds to woo filing clerks again. The records just don’t support the idea she was suffering those sort of problems. Not to mention I usually trust co-worker testimony as far as I can burn it, but her job really doesn’t seem like the sort you could do with a compromised sense of reality. Ms. Patel has refused our request for a follow-up interview and seems to be trying to distance herself from these events.

Graham Folger definitely existed, and appears to match up with her story. According to coroner’s records, Desmond and Samantha Folger, his parents, died on the M1 near Sheffield on August 4th, 2001, and Graham Folger’s name appears on the register of several colleges and universities in and around London over the next few years. The flat she mentioned did belong to Mr. Folger, but was sold through an agency in early 2007. All the photographs we’ve been able to source seem to match the description of this “Not-Graham” that Ms. Patel described, except for a few Polaroids, enclosed, which appear to be from the late 80s, and show the two parents alongside a dark-haired teenager who doesn’t match the later photos at all.

There doesn’t seem to be much more to be done here. Ms. Patel, like so many of our subjects, seems to have been more interested in giving her statement as a form of personal closure, rather than as the start of a serious investigation. She wasn’t even interested when Sasha told her we’d managed to locate what we believed to be one of Graham Folger’s journals. Doubt it would have done much good. It just says the same thing on every page: the words “Keep Watching” over and over again.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Dominic Swain, regarding a book briefly in his possession in the winter of 2012. Original statement given June 28th, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I work as a theatre technician in various venues around the West End; I mainly deal with lights, but a lot of the smaller venues can’t afford large crews for their productions so you end up doing a little bit of everything. I guess that’s not directly relevant to my experience but I just want you to know that I’m not some crazy person wandering in off the street. I work, I do practical things with my hands and I am not prone to crazed flights of fancy.

That day, I was going to see a matinee performance of The Trojan Women at The Gate Theatre, up in Notting Hill. A friend of mine, Katherine Mendes, was in it and had been trying to get me to come to see it for a while. We’d worked together on a production of The Seagull a couple of years before and had had a bit of a thing going back then. At this point I had just become single, so was keen to meet up and see if any of the old spark remained. I ended up going along on the afternoon of Saturday the 10th of November - I remember the date exactly, as there had been a lot of back-and-forth about it, since we were both involved in separate shows at the time, making evenings difficult.

So, on Saturday afternoon I found myself in Notting Hill Gate, killing an hour or two before the show was due to start. Now, Notting Hill is not somewhere I go often, as it tends towards the pricey, even for London, and I’m not sure how much you know about theatre techs, but we’re not generally an overpaid profession. Still, I had some vague memories of their being an Oxfam charity shop somewhere nearby, as I’d previously bought quite a nice old military tunic there which remains one of my favourite jackets. I found it without any problems, and spent ten minutes or so looking over the clothes and knickknacks, but was a bit disappointed. It was smaller than I remembered and just seemed to contain the same tedious curios as every other charity shop. I still had some time to kill, though, so I decided to have a look through their books, something I rarely bother doing usually.

I found the book on the Science Fiction and Fantasy shelf. At first I assumed it was some sort of faux-leather special edition and I was sure whoever put it out for sale must have done the same, because the price on it was only four pounds. There was something about it that made me take another look, though, and picking it up I felt the binding and realised it might well have been bound in real leather, probably calf, given how soft it was. I’m not an expert on books, by any means, but it seemed old, and I thought it might have been hand-bound as the pages were slightly uneven.

There was no dust wrapper on it and the front had no title, but embossed on the spine in faded gold letters were the words Ex Altiora. I did some Latin in school when I was a child, but I haven’t had much cause to use it since, so you’ll have to forgive me if my translations don’t make much sense, but I believe it meant “From Higher” or “Out of the Heights”.

I was astounded, to say the least - the book was clearly worth far more than it was being sold for. If the shop clerk who put it out had been paying any attention it would have been in the glass case where they kept those things people donated that were actually valuable. I had a flick through but it seemed to be entirely written in Latin, so I didn’t have much luck discerning what it was about. The only English seemed to be a bookplate at the front that read “From the library of Jurgen Leitner,” although no author was listed.

There were also several black and white illustrations - woodcuts I think - each showing a mountain or a cliff or in one picture what appeared to be an empty night sky. I felt an odd sensation when I looked at that image as though, simple as it was, I was about to fall into it, and my stomach gave an odd jolt, almost causing me to drop the book in the middle of Oxfam.

I made up my mind to buy it. Even if I never figured out how to read the thing, it was clearly worth a lot more than they were selling it for. I felt like bit of an arse for not letting them know how valuable it was, almost like I was stealing money from the charity, but in the end I realised that it wasn’t my job to set the prices in this shop and besides, this book absolutely fascinated me. The woman working the till didn’t even raise an eyebrow when I brought it over and paid my four pounds. I headed out, hoping to find a café where I could sit and have another look through, but it was then that I noticed the time. I had somehow managed to spend an hour in that shop, and now I was very nearly late for Katherine’s play. I made it in time, luckily, though I had to run a bit.

The show was fine. I’ve never been a particular fan of Greek plays, and this interpretation was not the one to win me round to them. Katherine was excellent, of course, but the rest of the show was quite frankly a bit pedestrian. Still, I’m not a theatre critic, and I wasn’t exactly paying it my full attention, as I was convinced there was a problem with the stage lights. Throughout the show I kept getting the faintest smell of ozone and was worried. The only other time I’d smelled that in the theatre was when one of my stage hands had accidentally ordered the wrong sort of light and we’d ended up installing a projector with a xenon-mercury lamp - the sort used to sterilise medical equipment with UV. I spotted the issue before anything happened, but I still remember that intense ozone smell. Still, no-one else seemed to notice it and I couldn’t see anything in their light set-up that would have caused the odour, so I tried my best to ignore it.

After the performance was finished, Katherine and I grabbed a quick dinner before heading to our respective evening shows. I was disappointed to discover that whatever attraction there had been between us seemed to have vanished completely, and while we spent a pleasant enough couple of hours together it was obvious that neither of us wanted to take it any further. I did show her the book, though. She knew even less Latin than I did, but was impressed. She said it looked valuable and that I should take it somewhere to be appraised, although she didn’t look through it in any detail, as the pictures triggered her vertigo for some reason.

Nothing of note occurred after I left. I did my show, a production of Much Ado About Nothing down at the Courtyard Theatre, with no problems. I returned home late, having gone for a drink with the stage manager and a couple of the actors, and felt far too awake to just go to bed, so I poured myself a small gin and tonic and decided to look through this book in more detail. Oddly enough, I somehow hadn’t learned any more Latin since I bought it twelve hours before, so reading it was still out of the question, but I went through and had a closer look at those woodcuts. There were about a dozen that I found, mostly mountains and cliffs but one appeared to be a tower, looming over the surrounding countryside at an odd angle, with tiny birds just visible circling the summit.

And then there was that picture of an empty sky. I’ve never had any fear of heights, but staring at that picture I felt… I don’t know, really. I just couldn’t look at it for too long. It seemed to open forever, nothing to do but fall into it. It was even stranger as there wasn’t much to the picture itself except for black ink and a few stylised stars, but something in the proportions just had that effect on me.

I decided that maybe Katherine had been right, and it might be valuable as an antique, so I did some research to try and find out more about it. Latin fell out of favour as a language for academic texts in the 18th Century and I really doubted the thing was that old. Since then it was only really used for religious texts but the book certainly didn’t look like it was full of prayers. Searching Ex Altiora online didn’t do much good - the phrase was used in a few old prayers, there was a company called Altiora and something in Italian about football, but nothing that looked even remotely like it related to my book.

Searching for Jurgen Leitner wasn’t much better. It brought up an entry for an Austrian musician and a few Facebook pages, although they all seemed to have umlauts in their names, unlike the one in the book, and none of them looked like the sorts to have a library full of strange Latin texts. The only thing I found that looked even remotely relevant was a listing on eBay from 2007. The auction was titled “Key of Solomon 1863 owned by MacGregor Mathers and Jurgen Leitner” and had been won for just over £1200 by a deactivated user - grbookworm1818. There was no picture or description - just the title and the winning bid. I decided to call it a night and go to bed. I think I had a nightmare, but I don’t remember the details.

I slept in very late the next day and by the time I awoke there wasn’t much daylight left, but I spent the hours until my show contacting book dealers that I’d looked up online. All of them put the book’s age between 100 and 150 years, and said it looked like it had been custom-bound. Most offered to buy it off me for a few hundred pounds, but at this point I was more interested in information about it. Unfortunately, none of them had heard of it before, or seemed at all familiar with its contents.

The last seller I went to did recognise the name Jurgen Leitner, though. She told me Leitner had been a big name in the literary scene during the 1990s; some rich Scandinavian recluse paying absurd amounts of money for whatever books took his fancy. It was said he’d often have books custom-bound after providing a manuscript, or even commission authors to produce works to his brief - although she didn’t actually know any writers who had worked with Leitner. He dropped from public view sometime around ‘95, but she recalled he used to have extensive dealings with Pinhole Books down in Morden, and gave me the details for Mary Keay, who owned it.

I went and I did my show after that, the last night of the run, in point of fact, but though I didn’t miss a single lighting cue, all through it I just couldn’t take my mind off the book. I felt as though there was something I was missing, just beyond my grasp. And all throughout I could detect that same faint smell of ozone. Or was it ozone? There was something else there, something I knew but could not remember. Every time I felt I was close, I was overcome with a dizziness and nausea that threatened to topple me over.

I skipped the cast party afterwards, instead going for a long walk to “clear my head” in the cold November air. I don’t know how long I walked for. It must have been hours, but it felt right, like it was all I could do. Walking felt as natural as falling. It was only when a man shouted at me for almost walking into him that I stopped and took stock of my surroundings. I had no idea where I was. I took out my phone to find the nearest station and saw that I was only a street away from Morden.

I felt dizzy all of a sudden, and when I looked at the building I was stood in front of, I was not in the least bit surprised to see a brass plaque reading “Pinhole Books - By Appointment Only” next to an unmarked door of dark-stained wood. I rang the doorbell and waited.

The woman who opened the door wasn’t at all what I was expecting. She was very old and painfully thin, but her head was completely clean shaven, and every square inch of skin I could see was tattooed over with closely-written words in a script I didn’t recognise. She stood at the bottom of a flight of stairs, and from the top I could hear the sound of death metal blaring out of some powerful speakers. I wondered for a moment if she got complaints from the neighbours, playing it so loudly at two o’clock in the morning, and realised with a start that it was actually two o’clock in the morning. I apologised for disturbing her so late and asked if she was Mary Keay. She just snorted and asked in a decidedly unfriendly manner if I had an appointment.

I reached into my bag and pulled out Ex Altiora, opening it to show Leitner’s name on the bookplate. At this her eyes seemed to light up, and she turned around to walk up the stairs. She didn’t shut the door behind her, so I took this as an invitation and followed her up.

We entered a cramped set of rooms, with books piled high in every conceivable corner, almost to a point where I had to be careful following her through the labyrinth, so as not to take a wrong turn. She was talking, I realised, and didn’t seem to care if I heard her over the music or not. She said it had been a long time since she’d found a Leitner, although “her Gerard” kept an eye out. She gave no elaboration as to who her Gerard might have been. This strange old woman didn’t seem interested in actually reading or looking at my book in depth, but asked instead if I wanted to see hers. I just nodded. I was out of my depth here, but I had no idea what in. I just knew that I hadn’t smelled ozone since I arrived.

I followed Mary Keay into a dingy study. It was small to begin with, but every wall was completely covered with packed bookshelves, crowding even further into the space. Immediately my host began to scan them intently, muttering to herself about where “he” would have put it. I stood there awkwardly, not wanting to stare at the old woman, but also hesitant to do anything else.

Aside from the bookshelves, there was little in the room other than a worn desk with a very old-looking chair behind it. The desk was covered with papers, as well as fishing wire and a safety razor. I think it says something about my state of mind at this point that I didn’t even give those items a second thought at the time.

Instead, my attention was fixed on a picture attached to the one small area of wall not covered by bookshelves. It was a painting of an eye. Very detailed, and at first I almost would have said almost photorealistic, but the more I looked at it, the more I saw the patterns and symmetries that formed into a single image, until I was so focused on them that I started to have difficulty seeing the eye itself.

Written below it were three lines, in fine green calligraphy: “Grant us the sight that we may not know. Grant us the scent that we may not catch. Grant us the sound that we may not call.”

At this point Mary Keay returned with two cups of tea. I hadn’t even noticed her leave nor had I requested the cup of black tea she pressed into my hand. She asked if I liked the painting and told me that her Gerard had done it. Said he was a very talented artist. I mumbled something approving, I don’t remember exactly what, and looked at the cup of tea in my hand. She hadn’t offered me any milk, and was now busily searching the shelves again, her own cup forgotten on the desk. I tried to drink the stuff out of politeness, but it tasted foul, like dust and smoke. I think it might have once been lapsang souchong, but if so it must have been years old.

Finally, Mary seemed to find the book she was looking for and took it from the shelf. She handed me a book that, at first glance, appeared to be almost identical to my copy of Ex Altiora, except that the leather was in slightly better condition. There was no title on this one, but opening it I could see that it was written in letters I didn’t recognise. There were no illustrations in this book, and the only English words I could find were on the bookplate: “From the library of Jurgen Leitner”. Just like mine. Mary told me that the writing was in Sanskrit, but when I asked her if she could read it she just started laughing.

She took the book back and walked over to the desk where the room’s single unshaded light bulb cast stark shadows across the floor. She very deliberately held the book in those shadows for a few seconds and then handed it back to me. I noticed for the first time that the heavy metal music was no longer playing, and the room was utterly silent.

I opened the book, and for a few seconds was confused to see that nothing seemed to have changed. The writing was still unintelligible to me and it felt no different. I lifted it to have a closer look, and as I did I heard something clatter lightly onto the floor. I looked down to see bones. Small animal bones, from what I can tell, but each one was slightly bent and warped into shapes that bones should not form.

As I stared at them, Mary Keay took the book back from me and passed it through the shadows once again. More bones fell. She did this several times, until there was a small pile formed at my feet.

I didn’t know what to say. By this point my head was pounding and the feel of this cramped, dark place with its old tea and ancient books was starting to overwhelm me. All I could think to ask was whether my book did that as well. Mary Keay laughed and told me to look for myself. I began to look through those pages. I hadn’t passed it through any shadows, but I knew something had changed. The woodcuts were starker, somehow, and in the background of each there were new lines, thick and dark, stretching down from the sky. And then I came to the picture of that empty night, but now it had a stark, branching pattern carving through it. A pattern I recognised. My stomach dropped, as though the floor was gone and I was falling.

Struggling to stay standing, I muttered some excuse and went to leave. The ozone smell was back now, stronger than ever, and I had to get out. I fell down the stairs as I fled, badly bruising my hip and twisting my ankle painfully, but I didn’t care. I limped from that place as quickly as I could and hailed a taxi to take me home, fingers still locked in a death-grip on my book.

The branching pattern I had seen in that picture is known as the Lichtenberg figure. It shows the diverging paths of electricity on an insulating material, such as glass or resin. I knew it from the pattern of scars on the back of my childhood friend, who had been struck by lightning because of me.

His name was Michael Crew, and we’d been 8 years old at the time, playing in a field near my grandmother’s house. When the storm hit, Michael had said that we should go inside, but I wanted to keep playing in the rain. I said that to him, and he just sighed and told me alright. It was as he said these words that he was struck.

The sound when it happened was so loud that it drowned out his screams completely, but it was the smell that really stayed with me: that powerful ozone smell, cut through with the scent of cooking meat. Michael survived, in the end, but the scar, that branching Lichtenberg scar, stayed with him for the rest of his life.

When I got home it took all of my concentration to get up the stairs, and when I finally made it onto my sofa I couldn’t shake that feeling as though I was falling. The smell was so strong I could hardly breathe. I didn’t look at the book, I just lay there. I felt as though I was waiting for something, but I had no idea what.

By the time the knock on the door finally came, I was almost feeling composed enough to answer. Almost. It still took me almost five minutes to work up the nerve to open it. The knock did not come again, but I was positive that whatever was on the other side had not gone away. I reached over, grasped the handle and pulled the door open.

Stood just over the threshold was a man in a long, dark leather coat. His hair was dyed an artificial black, and he had the unshaven look of someone who hadn’t slept in a couple of days. I asked him if he was Gerard Keay. He said that he was, and told me he’d like to see my book. I nodded silently and he followed me inside, closing the door behind him.

I took out the book and placed it on the table. Gerard studied it for some time, but did not touch it. Finally, he nodded and offered to buy it from me for five thousand pounds. I almost laughed when he said that. I would have sold it for a fraction of the amount. I might even have given it away, if it wasn’t for the feeling that that… wouldn’t count somehow. It’s hard to explain. I didn’t care what he planned to do with it, I just wanted to get rid of it, and so I agreed.

Gerard didn’t seem exactly happy at the news. He just nodded gravely and headed towards the door, saying he’d need to get the money and return. I didn’t try to stop him. He left, closing the door behind him and I was alone once again. The whole encounter lasted barely more than a minute.

I sat there, waiting in silence for him to return. It was awful, and I needed to find some way to distract myself from the creeping smell, so I decided to get out my computer and see what I could find out about Gerard and Mary Keay. Typing in their names I don’t know what sort of thing it was that I expected to find, but it certainly wasn’t a news article from 2008 about Mary Keay’s murder.

Police had broken in late September, after neighbours complained about the smell, and found her lying dead in the study. Cause of death was apparently determined to be an overdose of painkillers, but it was judged a murder due to “extensive post-mortem mutilation of the body”. Large pieces of her skin had been peeled away, and hung up to dry on fishing wire, all around the room.

The article had a picture of Mary Keay, and there was no question that it was the same old woman that I had met in Morden, although in the photograph she seemed to have a full head of hair and lacked any visible tattoos.

I frantically started searching for any other information I could find. Other news stories covered Gerard’s trial for his mother’s murder. Apparently he had been acquitted after a significant piece of evidence was deemed inadmissible, although none of the reports seemed to know what exactly that evidence was. It was at this moment the knocking came again. Gerard had returned.

I opened the door. I thought briefly about not letting him in, but I knew he’d wait there as long as he needed to, and I couldn’t think for the reek of ozone that penetrated every one of my senses. I could not hide the terror on my face as he entered, but if he noticed the change in my demeanour then he didn’t react to it. He simply handed me an envelope filled with cash. I didn’t even bother to count it before handing him the book. He looked at the title, then flicked through it very quickly, before laughing, just once and nodding, apparently to himself, as though he’d just come to some sort of decision.

I had expected Gerard to leave immediately, but instead he walked over to my metal waste paper basket and placed the book inside. He reached into his jacket pocket, and pulled out a bottle of lighter fluid and a box of matches. Within a few seconds the book was ablaze, and the smell vanished almost immediately. Even as my head began to clear, I felt like I had to ask him why, but he just shook his head.

“My mother doesn’t always know what’s best for our family.” That was all he said before picking up the waste paper bin, now full of gently smouldering ashes. I warned him it would be too hot to hold, but he shrugged and said he’d had worse. Then Gerard Keay left, and I never saw him or the book again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

If I never hear the name Jurgen Leitner again it will be too soon. I suppose it was too much to hope that we’d finally dealt with all that remained of his library after the incident in 1994, but it would have been useful if Gertrude had at least thought to add this statement to the current project file. Who knows how many other statements are in here that might deal with his books, or other currently active Institute projects?

If my luck thus far is anything to go by, then I’d say it is unlikely this was an isolated example. The more I discover about this archive, the more it seems Gertrude simply took the written statements and threw them into these files without even reading them. Given that she was Head Archivist for over fifty years, then that is… This might be a bigger job than I originally thought.

Regardless, most of the verifiable details in Mr. Swain’s account seem to match up with our own researches. Martin couldn’t find any records of Ex Altiora as a title in existent catalogues of esoteric or similar literature, so I assigned Sasha to double-check. Still nothing. Is it possible Mr. Swain got the title wrong? It seems unlikely, given the simplicity of it, and the… occurrences he describes certainly sound like they could have been due to the proximity of a true Leitner tome. Still, all the other books from his library have been custom editions of known texts on dæmonology or the arcane. If there are Leitners out there that we haven’t even heard of, I fear that may be cause for some small alarm.

Useful details for follow-up are few and far between, however. Donation records at the Oxfam charity shop in Notting Hill Gate only have anonymous donations listed for books in October/November 2012, and obviously none of the staff recall the book. We’ve also been unable to locate Gerard Keay at all. Aside from this encounter, he seems to have almost entirely disappeared following the end of his trial.

The description Mr. Swain gives does appear to match file photos of Gerard and Mary Keay, and from his description it sounds like he did find his way to what used to be Pinhole Books in Morden, although it has been closed since 2008 for obvious reasons, and no new tenants moved in until 2014.

There was one interesting thing Tim found out, though, in the official police report on Mary Keay’s death - apparently, the drying sheets of skin had been written over in permanent marker. There was no transcription or translation of it in the report but the language was identified to be Sanskrit.

So it doesn’t appear that we have any concrete leads to go on. Still, I will be bringing this up with Elias and recommending that the search for any other missed books from the Leitner library be made this Institute’s highest priority. Jurgen Leitner has done the world enough harm and we must pursue all available avenues to ensure that he does no more.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Kieran Woodward, regarding items recovered from the refuse of 93 Lancaster Road, Walthamstow. Original statement given February 23rd, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I work as a bin man for Waltham Forest Council. It’s not a bad job, really, as long as you can handle the smell and the early mornings, not to mention that when winter really gets going it can be pretty unpleasant. I’ve had to chip ice off more than a few bins in my time, just to get them open. Still, the pay’s pretty decent; at least it is once you throw in the overtime and the bonuses, and once you’ve done the rounds you’re usually off for the day, so you’re working fewer hours than your average office monkey; it’s just that those hours tend to be a lot less pleasant than anything you’re likely to find staring at some accounting spreadsheet.

But I didn’t come here to talk about the benefits and problems of working in waste collection. At least, I guess I came to talk about one very specific problem that I encountered last year, when doing the rubbish collection for 93 Lancaster Road.

Now, you encounter weird things in this job all the time. People have an odd mental block - this idea that as soon as they put something in the bin it’s gone. It’s officially been made rubbish and no-one will ever see it again. The fact that someone had to take it from your bin to the landfill or the recycling centre doesn’t really enter their heads, and nobody ever seems to realise that up to a dozen people might be seeing what you throw away before it finally disappears forever. But no, as far as the rest of the world thinks about it, once it’s been thrown away, it’s gone, far beyond all human understanding.

This leaves those of us who work in waste collection seeing kind of a strange side to humanity, but an honest one at that. If you’re a bit of a boozer, there’s every chance that your bin men know how much you drink better than you do, because we empty all the bottles. And yes, we do remember, and we also get quite judgemental at times, although not about the things you might think - you can throw away a mountain of grotesque porn and, as long as you’ve tied it into neat bundles, we’re fine with it, but if you throw away cat litter without properly bagging that, you’d better believe that you’ve earned the hatred of every bin man that ever slung a sack. Still, I’m getting off topic.

Point is, the bag of dolls heads didn’t bother me. I mean, it was freaky, don’t get me wrong - hundreds of small plastic heads, staring out of the refuse sack at me, but aside from a slight rip on the side of the black bag, they were thrown away very neatly, and were easy enough to toss into the truck.

The bag was full of them, mind. It was placed next to the green recycling bin and at first I thought that it was just a single doll with its head positioned near the tear, but when I tossed the bag into the truck the rip split, spilling forth a whole bunch of the things. At a guess I’d say there were over a hundred in there. They were made of hard, rigid plastic with that infant doll face that you seem to find on every toy like that.

Several of them had different hair moulded or painted on, so it was clear that they weren’t simply from a hundred or so of the same doll. Someone had spent time acquiring a whole variety of different dolls, which they then beheaded and stuffed into the sack. They were very battered, but not with age - it looked as though someone had taken the brand new heads and dragged them over rough concrete, though I couldn’t say whether they’d have been attached to the rest of the doll at the time.

It was creepy, sure, but the sun was shining and there were four of us working the truck that day, so it was easy enough to laugh it off. It was the old crew - me, David Atayah, Matthew Wilkinson, and Alan Parfitt, who drives - drove - the truck.

What it did do, though, was mark out 93 Lancaster Road in our minds as “the Doll House”, since we spent the rest of the day making off-colour jokes about the sort of people who must live there. I said before that your bin man knows a lot about you. Now, that’s probably not actually true for most people - we service hundreds of homes each day and who can keep track of that many people? Who wants to?

You do have houses, though, that you learn to keep an eye on; the sort of places that throw out strange or sometimes even dangerous things. Like I said, we probably know if you’re an alcoholic, but it’s not because we watch you obsessively or care about your health. It’s because smashed bottles and broken glass are dangerous and you learn to keep an eye out around houses where you’re likely to find them. I read once that waste collection is the second most dangerous profession in England. Not sure I believe it - they said the first was farming - but you do see your fair share of injuries, so you learn to keep your eyes peeled and mark out in your mind which houses you want to stay wary of.

Now, after that, the Doll House became one of those houses for our crew. Not so much for any known danger, but when someone throws out a bin full of weird stuff like that, you never know what else they might decide to toss. Also, Alan, well, he had kind of a twisted sense of humour, and he loved the doll heads. When we told him, he insisted on stopping the truck and getting out to have a look, so after that, he always made a point to ask us to keep an eye on 93.

And we did. The next couple of weeks, when we pulled up to 93, I took an extra second or two just to check for anything strange in the bins, but nothing seemed out of the ordinary. Alan especially was disappointed by this but it was hardly something to dwell on, so we put is out of our minds and pressed on with the day’s work. This continued for what must have been a few months, and the whole doll heads incident hadn’t come up, except for a few interesting conversations at the recycling plant where, to be honest, I don’t think anyone believed us, or if they did they’d immediately try to top it with their own story of bizarre finds.

It was the start of spring when we got the next strange bag from 93 Lancaster Road. Again, it was an unmarked black refuse bag placed next to the recycling bin. As soon as I saw it, I knew it was another one. The shape of it was too regular to be full of the normal assortment of rubbish. As I picked it up, I realised it was far too light as well. It seemed to weigh almost nothing, but was bulging with what sounded like a whole load of paper inside.

I gave the others a look and told them I thought we had another odd bag. David and Matt started discussing whether we should open it, as this one didn’t seem to have a rip like the last one, and we were still talking it over when Alan came back to see what was taking us so long. He knew where we were, and you could see it in his eyes that he’d been hoping this was the reason for the delay. One look at his face and I knew that if we didn’t open it, he would.

I looked up towards the house, checking for anyone watching, but 93 was right near the start of our route, so it was still very early in the morning and all the lights were off. There was no sign of movement so, very carefully, I opened the bag.

Inside was paper, as I expected. It seemed to be a single strip of thick white writing paper, maybe an inch wide. The paper was long, so long that it seemed like the whole bag was filled solely with this one piece of it, wrapped and curled and crumpled to fit inside. There was writing on it in another language, I think Latin.

Matt, who was raised Catholic and never shut up about it, said he recognised it and claimed that it was the Lord’s Prayer, the Our Father, written over and over again. He seemed pretty rattled about it, especially at the fact that at certain points the edges of the paper seemed to be slightly singed, as though it had been passed over a candle or a lighter. He even seemed hesitant about throwing it in with the rest of the garbage, but we didn’t have anything else we could actually do with it, so into the truck it went.

Alan was smiling the rest of the shift, and there was a delight there that, quite frankly, had started to unsettle me a bit. As far as I was concerned this was a bit of a let-down after the dolls’ heads, but the way the others had reacted put me on edge.

The third bag was the one that really changed things. It was a fortnight after the one with the prayer paper in it. As we approached 93, I noticed there was another bag sitting next to the bin. The others clearly noticed as well, as everyone went very quiet. The first two had been the only times there had been rubbish bags at the house that weren’t in the actual bin itself, so there was little doubt in my mind that this was going to be more creepy trash. Alan turned the engine off as we pulled level with the house, and got out. Whatever was in this one, he was going to see it.

The bag bulged, just like the others, but had a bumpy sort of look to its surface. We all stared at it for several seconds, before I realised that the others were waiting for me to pick it up - I’d picked up the others, and apparently this was how it was done now. It almost felt like a ritual.

I walked over and lifted it off the ground. It was heavier than the last one, and as it moved it made a sound, like shifting sand or gravel, or maybe more of a rattle. I started to carry it towards my colleagues to open it, when I accidentally caught the bottom of it on the low brick wall at the end of the small front garden. Already filled almost to bursting, the bag tore open easily.

From the newly ripped hole, poured teeth. Hundreds, thousands of teeth; they came streaming down it a waterfall of white, cream and yellow, bouncing as they hit the pavement, and gradually forming a pile of astounding size. When the bag was finally empty, we just stood there in silence, staring at the mountain of teeth that now lay on ground before us.

They looked like human teeth to me, but I wasn’t exactly an expert and I sure as hell didn’t want to check closer. Finally, David broke the silence by vomiting loudly into a nearby drain and I backed away from the grisly mound. Even Alan looked shaken by this - I suppose some things are disconcerting however grim your interests. We phoned the police.

That’s something else that people always forget about garbage men - we’re perfectly capable of calling the police if we see obviously illegal stuff being thrown away. Usually we don’t bother if it’s just something small, but this… for this we phoned the police. They came in surprisingly good time and I reckon they were even more freaked out than we were.

One of them took our statements, while the other went up to the house itself to check on the occupants, and see if they knew anything about the teeth. As the officer knocked on the door, we all strained to get a better look at what greeted her. There was no way after all this we were going to pass up a chance to actually get a look at the residents of 93 Lancaster Road.

Eventually the door opened, and an old woman stood there, blinking in the early morning sunlight and clearly slightly alarmed to see the police. Needless to say, the old lady and her husband had no idea about any of the weird bags that had been appearing in their rubbish, and seemed properly upset when they were given the details. The police spent a good ten minutes doing their best to collect up all the teeth, and we were sent on our way. I have no idea what, if anything, the investigation turned up. Certainly I was never contacted by them again, and if any of the rest were, they didn’t mention it.

And for a while, that was it. We kept an eye out whenever we were heading down Lancaster Road, but didn’t encounter any further ominous garbage bags. I thought maybe the involvement of the police had scared off whoever was leaving them. Maybe the police had caught the culprit and just hadn’t told us.

I did start to notice, though, that Alan wasn’t doing well. He was often late to his shift, and when he finally got there he’d be exhausted and grumpy, snapping at everyone and rudely brushing off anyone asking about his health or how he was doing. He seemed even worse whenever we approached the end of Lancaster Road, sometimes speeding up the truck slightly so that we had to run to keep up. Eventually, after I tripped over the curb while hurrying and twisted my ankle, I confronted him, told him that whatever was going on with him, he could talk about it or get over it, but that he clearly needed to deal with something. He got very quiet, and said he’d been watching number 93 some nights. Said he wanted to see whoever was dropping this stuff off. That he had to know.

I don’t know what I expected. Trouble at home, maybe, or depression, but this took me by surprise. I told him it was a really bad idea, that if the police were still investigating they were more than likely to pick him up as the culprit, and even if they didn’t the old couple at 93 could just as easily get him arrested for harassment or stalking. Alan nodded along and agreed with me as I spoke, but I could see he wasn’t listening. He just said again that he needed to know, told me he’d be careful, as though that was meant to reassure me. It didn’t, but I could see I wasn’t going to talk him out of it and we ended in an uncomfortable silence.

What I didn’t say, is that I’d almost done the same thing myself once or twice. There was something about this, beyond anything else I’d encountered, that… I don’t know. It drew me in almost as much as it disgusted me. Almost, but not enough to do anything, and if I needed any further convincing that leaving it alone was the right decision, I only needed to look at Alan. As time went on, the bags under his eyes deepened, and I’d watch him down half a dozen energy drinks over the course of a morning, just to get through his shift.

I could have said something to our manager, but even then Alan was still my friend, and I didn’t want to be the one to get him in any sort of trouble. Eventually, though, it came to a head anyway. Alan fell asleep at the wheel of the truck and drove it into a parked car. No-one was hurt and the truck was going too slowly to do any real damage but, at that point, it was enough to get him fired. We were sad to see him go, but to be honest, by the end of it he’d become quite unpleasant to be around and no-one shed any real tears over it. We got a new member on our crew, a kid named Guy Wardman, and life continued in relative peace. For a while, anyway.

Then, on the 8th of August last year, at nine minutes past two in the morning, I was woken up by a text message from Alan. It said “FOUND HIM”. I texted him back immediately - What had he found? Was it whoever was leaving the bags? Had he brought another one? No response. I texted Alan again to ask if he was ok. I sent that text a lot of times, but never heard back. I tried phoning him, but nobody answered. As the minutes stretched to hours, the worry that had been growing in my gut settled into a grim certainty, and I knew that Alan was gone. I also knew that I had to go to 93 Lancaster Road and see for myself. I got my coat and headed out into the night.

I walked slowly, with a kind of reluctance, so the sky was starting to get light by the time I arrived. I knew what I’d find when I got there, and I was right. There was no sign of Alan, or of whoever he might have seen. There was, however, a new rubbish bag sitting there in its usual place. It was full, and this time the top of it had been tied off with a dark green ribbon, arranged in a bow like an old-fashioned Christmas present. It bulged in much the same way as the last one.

I picked up the bag, which turned out to be quite light, and I took off the bow. Opening it, I saw shifting white and, for a second, I was sure it was more teeth. Looking closer, though, I saw the truth: packing peanuts. Polystyrene packing peanuts. Enough to fill the bag to capacity. I almost felt relieved until I realised there was something else in there, something making it heavier than a bag of polystyrene should be.

I closed my eyes and reached in, expecting to find something horrible inside. My hand closed instead around cold metal, and I drew out a fist-sized lump of… I think it must have been copper or bronze, and had been roughly carved into the shape of a heart, but like a real heart, not like a Valentine’s one. It was cold to the touch, like it had just come out of a freezer, and it almost stuck to my skin. Engraved on the side was the name “Alan Parfitt”, the letters carved in with machine-like precision. That was the last sign of Alan I ever found. As far as I’m aware he’s never been seen since.

I gave the lump of metal to a friend of mine who works the medical waste run and owes me a favour. I asked him to throw it in with a shipment, as the medical incinerators burn hotter than any I have access to, and I figured that was my best shot at getting rid of it properly. I still work the Lancaster Road route, but since then there haven’t been any more weird bags turning up at 93. Mostly I’ve just tried to forget about it.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

It’s nice to have a statement where most of the particulars are easily verifiable. It comes with shorter supporting statements from David Atayah and Matthew Wilkinson confirming the contents of the first three bags, as well as the details of Alan Parfitt’s behaviour prior to his termination from the employment of local government. In an uncharacteristic example of actually dealing with modern technology, my predecessor had the good sense to make a copy of the final text conversation between Alan Parfitt and Mr. Woodward.

I had Martin conduct a follow-up interview with Mr. Woodward last week, but it was unenlightening. Apparently there have been no further bags at number 93 and in the intervening years he has largely discounted many of the stranger aspects of his experience. I wasn’t expecting much, as time generally makes people inclined to forget what they would rather not believe, but at least it got Martin out of the Institute for an afternoon, which is always a welcome relief.

Sasha had more luck following up with the old police reports. Alan Parfitt was reported as a missing person by his brother Michael on the 20th of August 2009, and his location remains unknown. The bag of teeth is also corroborated by the police reports of Police Constables Suresh and Altman, though they can provide no further details, as they never made an arrest or even located any suspects.

The medical report on the teeth themselves does give one puzzling detail: the teeth were confirmed to be human, but more than that, as far as the examiner was able to determine… they were all in different stages of decay and didn’t match any available dental records, but all two thousand seven hundred and eighty of them were the exact same tooth.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Timothy Hodge, regarding his sexual encounter with one Harriet Lee and her subsequent death. Original statement given December 9th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I don’t know what happened. I mean, I’m sure she’s dead, but I don’t…

Let me start from the beginning. I work as a designer. Mainly freelance, with a few more regular gigs with companies who like my work. I also have, well, had the luxury of a flat I’d managed to get set up so I could do most of my work there. This meant when I have a big job I spend quite a lot of time not leaving my home. Not the most stable of employment but I got quite good at balancing it so that after a big project I left myself a few days, or maybe even a week, before I had to get started on the next one. I find it’s important that I use this time to unwind and blow off a bit of steam, as when I’ve got work I often end up missing out on the regular weekend. Drinking and clubbing are my relaxation methods of choice, usually down Camden or Old Street, and while I’ll admit I’m not above the occasional party drug I swear that I was stone cold sober when this all took place.

That night in particular, it was about three weeks ago now, I’d just finished a big job for one of my more demanding clients and I wanted to get a bit wrecked. Unfortunately none of my friends were free to join me - not surprising as it was a Thursday in the middle of November - so it didn’t feel worth heading all the way into the city. Luckily I live in Brixton, which means I have a few decent options almost on my doorstep, and I happened to know that the Dogstar ran a pretty decent club night on Thursdays. I decided to go along and enjoy myself.

I did enjoy myself in the end. Despite the crowds and the music, I wasn’t feeling quite as wild as I expected but I drank a bit and danced plenty. Ok, maybe I wasn’t quite as sober as I said earlier but I certainly wouldn’t have called myself drunk. Now, I wasn’t particularly looking to get laid that night, but I know I’m not an unattractive guy and I live local, so I’m always alert, shall we say, for any possibility of finding myself a partner. It was closing in on midnight when I saw her. She was skinny and had that student look which could have put her age anywhere between nineteen and twenty-eight. Her hair was long, dyed a deep henna red, and she wore torn tights and too much eyeliner. Exactly the sort of girl I go for.

She was lurking on the dance floor and I wasted no time trying to catch her eye. It was harder than I’d guessed, though, as her attention seemed to be mainly focused on the doors. At first I thought she was waiting for someone but, the more I watched her the more I saw the nervousness in her eyes, maybe even fear? It was at that point she noticed me, and our eyes just locked, you know? She came over and we began to dance together. She was excellent, far better than me, and moved in a smooth, rolling sort of rhythm that made the word “writhe” leap suddenly to my mind.

I offered her a drink but she refused, gesturing instead for water, which I happily got. I couldn’t really hear her over the music but you don’t go to these nights for conversation. Besides, I heard her loud and clear when she leaned over and asked me if I wanted her. I said yes. Looking back it was stupid, of course it was, but she was beautiful and there was something in the way she moved that really got me. She smiled when I said yes, and for a moment it looked less like a smile of anticipation and more like a smile of relief.

Outside the Dogstar it was much quieter and we had a chance to talk. She told me her name was Harriet and she was very pleased to hear I lived locally, as it was a cold night. She held my arm tightly as we walked back towards my street. At first I thought this was for warmth as she didn’t have a coat and I doubted the light jacket she was wearing had much insulation. When I looked at her, though, I saw she was looking around the same way she’d been watching the door earlier. Her nervousness was even more obvious now and she was peering intently down every street we passed. I asked her if anything was wrong, and tried to tell her that I lived in a nice neighbourhood, she was perfectly safe, that sort of thing. She nodded and agreed but still seemed jumpy.

When we were about half way, she started scratching her arms. At first I thought she was just rubbing them for warmth, but after a few seconds it became clear that she was scratching them quite hard, leaving obvious red marks where her fingernails dug in. I was starting to suspect something was wrong, and asked Harriet if there was anything the matter, anything I should know. She just insisted we head back to my place as quickly as possible. I agreed since I figured that whatever the problem was, we could deal with it easier in my flat than on the cold streets at midnight.

By the time we reached my building, she was staring over her shoulder in near panic. I followed her gaze but couldn’t see anything, so quickly opened the front door and let her in. She seemed to relax a bit once we were both in the relatively warm corridor with the door shut firmly behind us. My flat was on the third floor and even though, as I said, I don’t live in a bad area, I did have an extra deadlock on my door. Harriet visibly relaxed when she saw it, and more so when it was closed. The skittish glances and scratching her arms stopped almost immediately.

I offered her a coffee or tea to warm up. She just asked for a glass of water, said she was feeling a bit unwell. We sat down and, once I’d fetched her water and fixed myself a coffee, we talked for a while. My instincts had been right - she was a student, studying art. She hadn’t been in London long, she said, was originally from Salisbury and had been finding it… difficult recently. When she left that pause, I saw in her eyes hints of that panic I’d seen on the street.

I asked her to tell me what was wrong, said something was clearly bothering her and I’d like to help. She got very quiet for a few moments and then nodded. She told me she’d been mugged the night before last, although the way she said the word “mugged” made it sound like she wasn’t sure. I just nodded and let her continue talking. She lived up in Archway, on a street named Elthorne Road, and had been walking home around midnight when she saw a woman lying face down on the pavement. This woman wore a long red dress and Harriet said she could see it shifting in the orange glow of the streetlamps, as though something was moving underneath it.

Harriet was close to her house, which she shared with several other students, so she said she was maybe less careful than she should have been and had approached, calling out and asking if the woman needed help. There was no response but all movement stopped and the red dress went very still.

Suddenly, far quicker than Harriet could have expected, the woman leapt to her feet and sprinted directly towards her, seizing her by the shoulders and pushing her back against a nearby wall. It happened so fast the Harriet said she had never really gotten a good look at the woman beyond her dress, a head of long, matted black hair and wide, staring eyes. The woman growled something at her, but Harriet couldn’t make it out. She tried to ask what the mugger wanted, but as she did she felt a sudden pain in her stomach, as though she’d been stabbed, which is exactly what she thought had happened. She told me that she had fallen to the ground and lost consciousness almost immediately.

When she awoke, the woman in the red dress was gone. Harriet had expected to find herself lying in a pool of blood from her stomach wound, but could instead find no trace of any injury anywhere, except for some scraped knees where she had fallen to the floor. She had staggered home and tried to sleep it off.

Since then, she said she’d been seeing that woman everywhere she went. She felt like she was being followed all the time and couldn’t stay in her own home, as whenever she did it was like this weight was dragging her down. Her skin became so itchy as to be nearly unbearable. Harriet had apparently tried to go to the police, but said as she approached the station she was overcome with such a powerful nausea that she threw up on the pavement. She had tried the hospital, but they just told her there was nothing obvious and to make an appointment with her doctor. She had been spending the last three days just wandering in cafés and bars and clubs, anywhere there were enough people that she felt safe. She just didn’t know what to do.

By now point Harriet was crying and I felt like a complete asshole for having brought the issue up. I mumbled some apologies. I don’t know what I said; I was just trying to make her feel better. Not sure what I expected to happen but I certainly didn’t expect her to kiss me at that moment. I know, I know, she was vulnerable and I feel like an a… But I swear I wasn’t trying to take advantage. I asked her again and again if she was sure, but she just kept nodding and dragged me to the bedroom. I mean, we had sex. There’s not much more to say about that, really. The important thing is what happened afterwards.

As we were lying there in bed, exhausted, I rested my head against her shoulder. I was about to say something or other, but before I could, I felt something move. It’s hard to describe exactly but it wasn’t her shoulder that moved, it was something inside it, under the skin. It squirmed ever so slightly against my cheek.

I shot up in bed, but the only indication that she’d noticed anything amiss was that she reached over and absentmindedly scratched where I’d been lying. I started to relax, lie down again; maybe I’d just imagined it. But at that moment she doubled over and groaned in sudden pain. Her eyes went wide and she clutched her stomach tightly. I tried to see what was wrong, asked if I could help, but she just pushed me away.

I had no idea what to do, so I ran out and towards the bathroom. My mind was going completely blank and I couldn’t remember whether I had any painkillers or indigestion medicine. Or should I be calling an ambulance? I wasn’t sure, and I ended up rooting through my medicine cabinet, looking for… I don’t know; anything that might have helped. I could still hear Harriet moaning in agony from the bedroom, and had just made up my mind to call for an ambulance, when I heard something that stopped me dead in my tracks.

It’s hard to really describe the sound that came from the bedroom. The closest I could come would be to say it sounded like… an egg being dropped onto a stone floor; a sort of wet, cracking thump. Then silence. Harriet was no longer making any noise at all. I slowly, very slowly, walked back towards the bedroom. The door was open, but I hadn’t turned the light on, so there was little to be seen inside except darkness. I could have turned on the light in the hall, I suppose, but something inside made me think that I didn’t want a good look inside that room. I stopped at the threshold. The only illumination at all came from a thin sliver of light coming in through the gap in the curtains from a streetlamp outside.

You’ll have to excuse me. What I saw is difficult to put down on paper, but it’s the only way to explain why I had to do it. Why setting my flat alight and standing naked in the winter streets until the fire brigade arrived was far better than spending another second in that place. And yes, I admit here I set the fire myself. Show it to the police for all I care, I just need someone to understand.

The room was unrecognisable when I returned. There was a shape on the bed, where Harriet had laid, but it wasn’t her anymore. I could barely make out anything even remotely human in the pile of pitted and warped flesh that now remained. The bed itself was slick and shiny with a dark fluid that dripped off the hanging sheets and onto the floor. But what truly repulsed me, what made me flee as I did, was what moved and squirmed on all of it. They covered every surface: the floor, the bed, what used to be Harriet, even the ceiling. A thick, moving carpet of pale, writhing worms.

The flat burned for a very long time.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

This story is concerning. Not because of Mr. Hodge’s experience, although I’m sure it was very upsetting. If it was true, of course. In fact, the police report that Sasha was able to acquire throws doubt on much of his story. While Mr. Hodges’ flat did indeed catch fire on November 20th of last year, there was apparently no evidence of arson, and no human remains found inside, despite the fact that the fire was brought under control long before any significant damage was done to the structure of the building. They did find some charred organic matter in the bedroom, but it was tested and apparently wasn’t human, though the report doesn’t list whether its source was ever determined.

I will say it does link up with the reported disappearance one Harriet Lee, a student at Roehampton who was reported missing shortly after this statement was originally given. She seems to match the description given here. Still, that’s not really what concerns me either, though obviously it’s a tragic loss of life, etcetera, etcetera.

No, what I find quite alarming is that if Mr. Hodge’s recollection of Harriet’s tale is correct and she was attacked by a woman in a red dress in Archway, then that matches the description and last known location of Jane Prentiss. I can’t find any evidence that my predecessor took follow-up action on this statement, so I’ve taken the step of reporting Mr. Hodge’s to the ECDC. We were unable to locate him to request a follow-up interview, and if he has had intercourse with one of Prentiss’ victims, then they’ll need to deal with him sooner rather than later. I just hope it’s not too late already.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Staff Sergeant Clarence Berry, regarding his time serving with Wilfred Owen in the Great War. Original statement given November 6th, 1922. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
A lot of people call me lucky, you know. Not many came through the entirety of the war in one piece. And if you discount the burns, then I did indeed do just that. Even fewer spent all four years at the front, like I did. I was never sent for treatment for shell shock or injury, and even my encounter with a German flamethrower only ended up with me in a front line hospital at Wipers. I was still in that field hospital when the fighting started at the Somme, so I suppose that was lucky too.

Four years… I sometimes feel like I’m the only one who saw the whole damn show from start to finish, as though I alone know the Great War in all its awful glory. But deep down I know that honour, such as it is, has to go to Wilfred. You wouldn’t have thought it from his poems, but all told, his time at the front totalled not much over a year. Yet he got to know the war in a way I never did. He’s certainly the only person I know that ever saw The Piper.

I grew up poor on the streets of Salford, so I joined the army as soon as I was old enough. I know you’ve heard the stories of brave lads signing up at 14, but this was before the war started, so there wasn’t such a demand for manpower and the recruiters were much more scrupulous about making sure those enlisting were of age. Even so, I was almost too skinny for them to take me and barely made the required weight. But in the end I made it through and, after my training, was assigned to the Manchester Regiment, 2nd Battalion, and it wasn’t long before we were shipped off to France with the British Expeditionary Force. You seem like educated sorts, so I’m sure you read in the papers how that went. Soon enough, though, the trenches were dug and the boredom started to set in. Now, boredom is fine, understand, when the alternatives are bombs, snipers and gas attacks, but months at a time sitting in a waterlogged hole in the ground, hoping your foot doesn’t start swelling, well… it has a quiet terror all its own.

Wilfred came to us in July of 1916. I’m not intimately familiar with his history but he clearly came from stock good enough to be assigned as a probationary Second Lieutenant. I was a Sergeant at the time, so had the job of giving him the sort of advice and support that a new officer needs from a NCO with two years of mud under his nails. That notwithstanding, I will admit taking a dislike to the man when I first met him - he outranked me, and most of the others in the trench, in both military and social terms, and he seemed to treat the whole affair with an airy contempt. There’s a sort of numbness that you adopt after months or years of bombing, a deliberate blankness which I think offended him. He was unfailingly polite, far more so than I was accustomed to in the Flanders mud, where the conversations, such as they were, were coarse and bleak. Yet under this politeness I could feel him dismiss out of hand any suggestion that I gave him or report that I made. It came as no surprise to me to when he mentioned he wrote poetry. To be perfectly honest I expected him to be dead within a week.

To Wilfred’s credit, he made it almost a year before anything horrendous happened to him, and by the following spring I’d venture to say that we might almost have been able to call each other friends. He had been composing poetry during this time, of course, and occasionally would read it out to some of the men. They generally enjoyed it, but personally I thought it was dreadful - there was an emptiness to it and every time he tried to put the war into words it just sounded trite, like there was no soul to what he had to say. He would often talk about his literary aspirations, and how he longed to be remembered, to take what this war truly was and immortalise it.

Were I prone to flights of fancy, I daresay I would call his words portentous. When he talked like that, he had an odd habit of trailing off in the middle of the conversation with a tilt of his head, as though his attention had been taken by a far-off sound.

The spring thaw had just recently passed when it happened, and we were on the offensive. Our battalion was near Savy Wood when the orders came down - we were to attack the Hindenburg Line. Our target was a trench on the west side of St. Quentin. It was a quiet march. Even at this stage there was often still some excitement when the orders came down for action, even if it was usually stifled by that choking fear that you got when waiting for the whistle. Yet that morning there was something different in the air, an oppressive dread. We’d made this attack before, and knew that the change from the valley exposed us to artillery fire. And artillery was always the scariest part of it for me. Bayonets you could dodge, bullets you could duck, even gas you could block out if you were lucky, but artillery? All you could do against artillery was pray.

Even Wilfred felt it, I could tell. He was usually quite talkative before combat. Morbid, but always talkative. That morning he didn’t say a word. I tried to talk with him and raise his spirits, as is a sergeant’s duty, but he just held up his hand to quiet me, and turned his head to listen. At the time I didn’t know what it was he was hearing but it kept him silent. Even when we crested the ridge, and the rest of us tried to drown out the deafening thrum of artillery with our own charging cry, even then he made no sound.

The ground shook with the impact of the mortar shells, and I ran from foxhole to crater to foxhole, keeping my head low to avoid the bullets. As I ran, I felt a shooting pain in my ankle and pitched forward into the mud. Looking down, I saw I’d been caught by a length of barbed wire, half-hidden by the damp upturned soil. I felt a surge of panic begin to overtake me, and frantically tried to remove the wire from my leg, but only succeeded in getting my hand scratched up quite badly.

I looked around desperately to see if there was anyone else nearby who could help. And there, not twenty yards in front of me, I saw Wilfred standing, his face blank and his head swaying to some unheard rhythm. And then I did hear it - gently riding over the pulse of mortars and the rattle of guns and the moans of dying men, a faint, piping melody. I could not have told you whether it was bagpipes or panpipes or some instrument I had never heard before, but its whistling tune was unmistakable, and struck me with a deepest sadness and a gentle creeping fear.

And in that moment I knew what was about to happen. I looked at Wilfred, and as our eyes met I saw that he knew as well. I heard a single gunshot, much louder than any of the others somehow, and I saw him go stiff, his eyes wide. And then the mortar blast hit him, and he was lost in an eruption of mud and earth.

I had plenty of time to mourn him, lying in that dreadful hole until nightfall, when I could free my leg as quietly and gently as possible before crawling back to our trench. It was slow going; every time a flare went up I could only lay motionless and pray, but the good Lord saw fit to let me reach our line relatively unscathed. I was quickly bundled off to the field hospital, which was overburdened as always. They didn’t have much in the way of medicine or staff to spare, and certainly no beds free, so they washed my wounds with iodine, bandaged them, sent me on my way. Told me to come back if I got gangrene.

I did have a look around the place to see if I could find Wilfred, but there was no sign of him to be found anywhere. Asking around the trench, no-one had seen him return among the wounded, so I began to reconcile myself to the fact that he was dead. He wasn’t the first friend I’d lost to the Germans nor even the first I’d seen die in front of me, but something about that strange music that I heard in the moments before that explosion lingered in my mind and left me dwelling on Wilfred in many a quiet moment.

It was probably about a week and a half later I heard shouting from the end of the trench. It was a scouting party who had been reconnoitring the river that flowed near Savy Wood. Apparently, they had found a wounded officer lying in a shell hole there and brought him back. I made my way over, and was astounded to see that it was Wilfred. His uniform was torn and burned, he was covered with blood and his eyes had a distant, far off expression to them, but he was most definitely alive. I rode with him back up to the field hospital, along with the Corporal of the squad who had found him.

Apparently he had been lying in that hole for days, ever since the battle. They’d found him there, half-dead from dehydration and fatigue, covered in the gore of another soldier. Whatever shell had created the hole he’d ended up in had clearly annihilated some other poor soul, and it was in his gory remnants that Wilfred had lain for almost two weeks.

I waited outside the hospital tent while he was being treated. The doctor came out shortly, a grave look on his face. He told me the Lieutenant was physically unharmed - something I considered at the time nothing short of a miracle - but that he had one of the worst cases of shell shock the doctor had ever encountered, and would have to be shipped back to England for recuperation. I asked him if I could see him, and the doctor consented, though he warned me that Wilfred hadn’t said a word since he’d been brought in.

As soon as I stepped inside the medical tent I was overwhelmed by the sweet scent of decaying flesh and the moans of pain and despair. The sharp smell of the disinfectant brought back unpleasant memories of chlorine gas attacks. Still, I eventually found my way over to Wilfred’s bed and, sure enough, there he was, staring silently out at the world, though with an intensity that alarmed me. I followed his gaze to a bed nearby, and there I saw a private I didn’t recognise. His forehead was slick with sweat and his chest rose and fell quickly, then abruptly stopped. I realised with a start that a man had just died, and nobody had noticed except Wilfred.

I tried to engage him in conversation, rattled off a few meaningless pleasantries. “How are you doing, old man?” “Heard you had a bit of close call.” “Glad you found yourself a crump-hole.” All that sort of nonsense. None of it seemed to produce any reaction in him, and instead he turned to me and after a long while he simply said: “I met the war.”

I told him that he certainly had, not many walk away from something like that and lying in that hole for so long, surrounded by all the death… Well, he had definitely met the war and it was rotten bloody business. But Wilfred just shook his head like I didn’t understand, and to be honest I was starting to feel like I didn’t, and he told me again that he “met the war”. He said it was no taller than I was.

It struck me that perhaps he was describing some dreadful mirage that had come upon him as he lay in that wretched place, and I asked him to tell me what the war looked like.

I remember exactly what he said. He told me it had three faces. One to play its pipes of scrimshawed bone, one to scream its dying battle cry and one that would not open its mouth, for when it did blood and sodden soil flowed out like a waterfall. Those arms that did not play the pipes were gripping blades and guns and spears, while others raised their hands in futile supplication of mercy, and one in a crisp salute. It wore a tattered coat of wool, olive green where it was not stained black, and beneath, nothing could be seen but a body beaten, slashed and shot and until nothing remained but the wounds themselves.

I had heard quite enough by this point, and said so to Wilfred, but if he heard me he gave no indication of it. He told me that the war, “the Piper”, had come to claim him, and he had begged to remain. The thing had paused its tune for but a moment, and with one of its arms it reached out and handed him a pen. He said he knew it would return for him someday, but now he too would live to play its tune. The way he looked at me at that moment was the same way he’d looked at me before the shell hit, and for a moment I could have sworn I once again heard that music on the breeze.

I left almost immediately after that, and was later told that he’d been shipped back to Britain, to recuperate at Craiglockhart. The other men grumbled about officers’ perks and a nice holiday for the Lieutenant, but they didn’t know what he’d been through, and I found it very hard to envy him myself. At one point I asked some of the squad who brought him back whether he’d been holding a pen when they found him, but they told me he hadn’t. The only thing they’d found nearby were the tags of the dead man among his remains. A man named Joseph Rayner.

And for a long while that was that. Wilfred was back at home recovering and taking on lighter duties, while I slogged on through the mud of Flanders. I had a few close calls myself - including the flamethrower that marked me so distinctively. Could have been worse, of course; if the rain hadn’t almost liquefied the mud of no man’s land I’d have gone up like a lucifer.

I did start to notice something among the troops, though. Every time we lined up to go over the top I would watch them, look into their faces. Most of them showed naught but the starkest fear, of course, but a few of them seemed distant. The whistle would startle them back to themselves and with wide eyes they would surge forward.

I had seen this before all that business with Wilfred, but had always assumed it was simply the mind trying to choke down the likelihood of its own death. Now when I watched, I found I could not help but notice the slight tilt of the head, as though gently straining their ears to hear a far-off tune. Those men never made it back to the trenches.

You know the phrase “to pay the piper”. I thought on it a lot through those many months - the debt of Hamelin, who for their greed had their children taken from them, never to be returned. Did you know Hamelin is a real place in Germany? Yes, not too far from Hanover as I recall. We had a prisoner once from there - I wanted to ask him about the old fairy tale and what, if anything, he knew of The Piper. The poor soul didn’t speak a word of English, though, and died from an infected shrapnel wound a few days later. He spent his last minutes humming a familiar tune. That night, as we scrambled through mud and broken metal in another futile attack, I began to wonder: were we the children stolen from their parents by The Piper’s tune? Or were we the rats that were led to the river and drowned because they ate too much of the wealthy’s grain?

Still, those are musings for poets, among whom I do not number. I did keep up with Wilfred’s work, though, and was startled to see how much it had changed since he left. Where once it could have been dismissed as frivolous, there was now a tragedy to it that flowed from the words. Even now, I can’t hear Exposure without being back in that damned trench at wintertime. And the public clearly felt similar, as one of the few newspapers we actually got through to the line had an extensive article praising his first collection. Despite all this, there was something about it that sat uneasily with me.

Wilfred returned to the 2nd Manchesters in July of 1918. He was clearly much changed from his time away, and seemed to be in good enough spirits, though we talked little any more, and when he looked at me, I saw in his eyes a fear that he was quick to hide. The war was grinding towards a close at this point. There was a fatigue that could be felt everywhere; even the enemy machine guns felt slower and more begrudging in their fire, but this charged our commanders to spur us on to more and more aggressive actions. Some desperate attempt to push Germany into a surrender, I suppose, and our attacks grew to a crescendo.

On the first day of October, we were ordered to storm the enemy position at Joncourt. I remember that the weather that day was beautiful - a last day of sunshine before autumn pressed in. We charged with some success, as I believe the German artillery hadn’t been lined up correctly, and for the first time since his return I found myself fighting alongside Wilfred. I can say without a word of a lie that across all the war I never saw a soldier fight with such ferocity as I saw in him that day. I hasten to add that that statement is not given in admiration - the savagery I saw in him as he tore into a man with his bayonet… I’d just as soon forget it. As he charged, he howled a terrible battle cry and, just for a moment, I could have sworn that I saw him cast a shadow that was not his own. I read in the paper he won the Military Cross for that attack.

It was a month later that I woke up to find him sitting next to my bed. He stared at me, not unkindly, though there was something in his eye that put my ill at ease. “Almost over now, Clarence,” he said to me. I said yes, it did seem to be all coming to an end. He smiled and shook his head. He sat their quietly for some time, at one point a flare burst in the sky outside, and enough of that stark red light came through the dugout’s makeshift doorway for me to see that Wilfred was crying. I knew he was listening to The Piper’s tune. He asked me if I heard it, and I told him no, I didn’t, and I wasn’t sure I ever really had. He nodded, and said he didn’t know which of us was the lucky one, and neither did I. Still don’t, really.

Wilfred Owen died crossing the canal at Sambre-Oise two days later. There wasn’t meant to be much, if any, resistance, but some of the soldiers stationed there returned fire. I found myself crouching behind him as the Captain, who had been shot in hip, was pulled to safety.

As we prepared to charge, Wilfred stopped all at once and turned to me with a smile on his face. At that moment I saw a trickle of blood start to flow from an opening hole in his forehead. I feel like I should make this clear - I have seen many people get shot. I know what it looks like and how a bullet hole appears. But here, the bullet hole simply opened, like an eye, and he fell to the ground, dead.

It was told to me later that it was on that day the first overtures of peace were made between the nations, and the Armistice was signed almost exactly a week later. We were shipped home soon after.

I believe it was not merely on that day, but at that very moment, when Wilfred fell, that the peace was finally assured. No-one can convince me otherwise. Did The Piper spare him before? Did it simply use him, later to cast him aside? I don’t know, and I try not to think about it overmuch. I have a wife now, and a child on the way, but I still get nightmares sometimes. The parade for Armistice Day passed by my house last year, and I had to shut my window tight when the military band marched past. It wasn’t a tune I cared to hear.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Well, if further evidence was needed of my predecessor’s disorganisation, here we have it. A statement from 1922 filed among the mid-2000s. Obviously there’s not much research or further investigation to be done into a case almost a hundred years old, especially when it involves so well documented a figure as Wilfred Owen.

Still, an interesting enough tale, and I feel like I recognise the name ‘Joseph Rayner’ from somewhere, though for the life of me I couldn’t say where. I’ve had the case returned to its proper location in the archives.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Ivo Lensik, regarding his experiences during construction of a house on Hill Top Road, Oxford. Original statement given March 13th, 2007. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’ve worked in construction for almost twenty years now, mostly in and around the Oxford area. When my father passed away in 1996, I took over his contracting business and have been working steadily ever since.

I can do most anything I’m called on for but generally specialise in new builds, plumbing and wiring work specifically, and I’ve got something of a reputation for being available at short notice, so it’s not unusual for me to be called in part-way through a build to do some work. When I got the job working on a house down Hill Top Road in mid-November, nothing about the situation seemed strange to me. The guy they had doing the wiring had been called for jury duty and they’d lost him for a couple of weeks, so they asked me to step in. I was on another job during the day, but my fiancée Sam was at a conference in Hamburg for a while and we were saving up for the wedding, so I figured I could do it in the evenings.

Now, Hill Top Road is quite a secluded street around the Cowley area. There aren’t many student houses on it, so it’s actually quite a peaceful place, especially after all the kids living there have gone to bed. The house itself had only recently been started, as some dispute over ownership had kept the land locked for years, and when I turned up it was still mostly empty. It had two floors with a loft that was going to be another bedroom, to match the rest of the road. The doors had been fitted, although the locks had not, but the empty spaces where the windows were due to be still stood vacant, letting in the chill. That side of the road backed on to South Park with fences marking the bottom of each garden.

The garden of this particular house was mostly full of building materials and debris, but I remember that standing over it all was a tree. It was very large and very dead and not to put too fine a point on it, the thing creeped me right the hell out. It seemed to cast odd shadows, which were dark and clear on even the most overcast of days.

But it wasn’t the tree that started it, though. No, that happened my third night on the job. It must have been 8 or 9 in the evening, as it had been dark for a couple of hours. I was working on the ground floor wiring when I heard a knock at the front door. At first I thought it must have been one of the other builders who had forgotten something, but then I realised that there was no lock on the door; any of the others would have known that and just come right it. I began to feel slightly uneasy, when the knock came again. Over the years I’ve had a few altercations with punks that wanted to cause trouble on my sites, so I picked up a hammer as I approached. I did my best to hold it casually, as though I’d just been using it.

I opened the door to see an unassuming man in a tan coat. He was quite young, white, maybe mid-twenties, clean-shaven with shaggy, chestnut brown hair. His coat was quite an old cut; it seemed to me he looked like something out of an old Polaroid.

He said his name was Raymond Fielding and that he owned the house. As he spoke, I felt my grip on the hammer tightening although I have no idea why. I asked him if he had any ID or documents and he handed over to me what seemed, as far as I could tell, to be the deed to the house, as well as the land beneath, and did indeed list a man named Raymond Fielding as the owner. So I let him in.

I apologised for the draught and said the window panes were being put in over the next few days but until then it was going to be cold. He didn’t respond, just walked over to the empty frame of the back window and stared out into the garden. I tried to get on with my work, keeping one eye on this stranger. Nothing about the situation felt quite right, but he didn’t seem to be doing anything suspicious, just standings there, looking into the garden. So I returned my concentration to the wiring.

After a minute or two, I became conscious of a sharp, unpleasant smell. I thought maybe I had wired something up wrong, but no, it smelled like burning human hair. I looked over to where Raymond had been standing, but he was gone. Where he had been there was just a patch of scorched wooden floor, still apparently smouldering and giving off that dreadful stink.

I ran to get the fire extinguisher from an adjoining room. I was gone only a few seconds but when I returned the smell was gone and there was no longer any smoke or fire, just the burn mark on the wooden floor in front of that window. Touching it, I found that it was just as cold as the rest of the floor. I started to clean, and found that the wood below appeared to be undamaged, with just a coating of soot and ashes on top.

I had a look around for this Raymond Fielding, but if he was ever truly there, then he was gone now. It was only when I had finished cleaning up the mark that the true strangeness of the situation began to sink in and I started to panic.

I should probably explain my fear a bit, as it wasn’t because of ghosts, or phantom smells or anything like that. You see, there is quite a significant history of schizophrenia among the men in my family. My father had it, as did my great uncle, and in both of their cases it led to suicide. I didn’t know much about my great uncle, but I had seen my father’s decline first hand. It had started shortly after his divorce from my mother, although thinking about it, it was perhaps the early stages that had exacerbated the problems in their marriage.

Regardless, he began to spend a lot of time locked in his study doing “his work”. I was maybe 24 or 25 at the time, and still living at home. I was working with my dad, doing much the same job as I do now, and it was at this point I had to take on more and more of the actual running of the business, since my father was beginning to prioritise his “work” over his actual job.

His “work” turned out to be fractals. He became obsessed with them, seemed to spend all of his time drawing them, staring at them, measuring the patterns they created. He would talk to me for hours about the maths behind them and tell me that he was on the verge of a great truth. He was going to shake mathematics to its foundations once he figured out this truth, hidden in those cascading fractal patterns.

One day I returned home to find my father staring through the blinds in terror. He claimed that someone was following him, told me that they were planning to stop his work. I asked him who it was, but he shook his head violently and said I’d know him when I saw him because “all the bones are in his hands”.

I tried to get him help, of course I did, but he refused to take any medication, as he said it interfered with his work, and he wasn’t dangerous, so I couldn’t have him committed. I knew it was only a matter of time before he hurt himself, and sure enough, the day came when he wouldn’t answer the knocks on his study door. I broke in to find him lying dead in a pool of blood, with deep gouges along his wrists and arms. The walls were covered in fractal drawings, every surface was piled high with them and pencil shavings littered the floor. The inquest ruled his death a suicide, although the coroner wasn’t able to identify the tool that had made the cuts on his arms, or why he had such a look of fear on his face.

This is why the apparent disappearance of Raymond Fielding worried me so much. I was younger than my father had been, but still had that possibility within me. This train of thought was likely why I wasn’t paying as much attention as I should have been where I was stepping, and I slipped on the wet section of flooring that I had just cleaned. I fell forward, hitting my head badly.

I don’t think I was unconscious for more than a few seconds, but when I woke up I was bleeding from a deep cut on my temple. I tried to make it to my car, but I was so dizzy just standing up that it was clear driving was out of the question. So I called for an ambulance. It arrived quickly and it took me to the John Radcliffe Hospital.

When I got there, they were very responsive and quickly determined that I had quite a severe concussion, so I was kept overnight for observation. I told my doctor everything about my encounter with Raymond Fielding. If it was early signs of any developing schizophrenia, I wanted to know as soon as possible. The doctor listened closely and said it was unlikely, as it would be surprising if I developed full hallucinations so abruptly, but that they were keeping me under observation.

I noticed, as I was explaining my experience, the nurse taking my blood pressure seemed to be listening intently, though she left before I could ask her why.

I stayed in that hospital for another two days. Sam wanted to cut short her trip when she heard about my concussion, but I told her that any real danger had passed and I should be fine until the end of her conference, so I was mostly on my own for that time.

It was the morning before she was due to return that I saw the nurse again. I’d just had the news that the tests had all come back fine, so I was being discharged and she came in to give me a final check.

She asked me if I was sure the man who had come to the house on Hill Top Road had called himself Raymond Fielding. I told her yes, and that I’d even seen his signature on the deed to the land, but that I didn’t know any of the history of the place. She got very quiet and sat down.

This nurse was an older woman, Malaysian, I think, and I would have guessed in her fifties, though I didn’t ask. She said her family had lived on Hill Top Road for a long time now and she knew the place I was working. In the 1960s, the house that had stood there had belonged to a man named Raymond Fielding.

He was a devout churchgoer, and had used it as a halfway house on behalf of the local diocese, looking after teenage runaways and young people with mental problems. The neighbourhood apparently hadn’t liked it, as its residents often got into trouble and Hill Top Road had started to get something of a reputation for it. Nobody ever said a word against Raymond himself, though, who was by all accounts such a kind and gentle soul as to be almost universally beloved.

Nobody was sure exactly when Agnes moved in; some even said she was Raymond’s actual daughter, as the two of them looked something alike and she was younger than most of the other kids living there. She couldn’t have been more than eleven when she turned up, and didn’t really talk, other than to tell people her name if asked. Everyone just started to notice this child with mousey brown pigtails staring at them through the windows of Raymond’s house. As far as anyone could tell, that’s all she ever seemed to do - stare at people from the windows. It was unsettling, but no-one had any real problem with it.

Over the next few years, the kids at the halfway house stopped causing problems in the area around Hill Top Road. It wasn’t an obvious change, but gradually the people living there were seen less and less. Raymond was still there and still seemed perfectly cheery. If anyone asked him about a resident who hadn’t been around for a while, he’d explain that they’d moved on or found a place of their own, and no-one really cared enough to follow up on his information.

Soon, the only people living in that old house were Agnes and Raymond. Then Raymond disappeared as well. Agnes must have been 18 or 19 by this point, and still hardly ever talked. When she was questioned about what happened to Raymond, she simply said he had gone away and that the house was hers. People got a bit worried at that, and the police conducted a small investigation, but the house had been legally signed over to Agnes, and there was no sign of any foul play. No sign of Raymond either, for that matter.

And so the years passed and Agnes lived on in that old house. Hardly ever seemed to leave it, just watched from the windows. Folks in Hill Top Road learned it was best not to keep pets, as they tended to vanish. Then, in 1974, Henry White goes missing. Five years old, and the search turned up nothing.

People had always whispered about Agnes, but now the whispers got nasty. Nasty enough that when smoke was seen pouring out of the old Fielding house a week after little Henry disappeared, no-one did a thing. No-one phoned the fire brigade or tried to help. They just watched. Agnes must not have phoned for assistance either, as by the time the fire trucks arrived, there was nothing left to save.

Through it all, nobody saw any sign of life from within the building. No screaming, no movement, nothing but the roaring of the flames. When the fire was finally put out, they did find human remains, but it wasn’t Agnes, nor was it Henry White. The only body they found was that of Raymond Fielding. All that was left was a badly-charred skeleton, missing its right hand.

That was the history of the place, as the nurse told it to me. Once the rubble had been cleared away, the land had become tied up in legal complications relating to the ownership and had remained so until earlier last year. She asked me not to let anyone else know she’d been talking about it, as she didn’t want people to think she had been spreading stories. I told her I’d keep quiet and she left. I didn’t see her again and was discharged soon afterwards.

I rested at home for a couple of days, but I find forced inactivity very boring, and my head was feeling fine so I decided to go back to work. By all rights, I should probably have avoided returning to Hill Top Road, but I found myself resenting how the house made me feel. I didn’t believe in ghosts, to be honest I’m still not sure I do, and had been assured by the doctor that I wasn’t displaying any other symptoms of schizophrenia, so there was no reason for me to feel this gnawing apprehension. I convinced myself that the only way to banish the feeling was to return and finish the job that I started. So that’s what I did, although I was careful to work only in daylight now and tried to avoid being alone.

Even so, there were occasional moments when I would find myself the only one working in a room, or when silence fell across the building. And then I would smell it again, that whiff of burnt hair, or catch a glimpse of brown pigtails disappearing around a corner. As the job drew towards a close, it became harder to avoid working there after dark, until I lost track of time completely one afternoon, and looked up to see that not only had night fallen, but I was the only one left in the building.

Almost as soon as I realised this, I began to sweat. At first I thought it was nerves, or even a panic attack at finding myself alone, but it was the heat; this warmth that seemed to start in my bones and radiate out through me. I took off my hat and jacket, but I just got hotter and hotter until it felt like I was cooking from the inside. I tried to scream but I couldn’t find my breath, I couldn’t move. I was burning up.

There was a knock at the door, and the feeling abruptly vanished. I was cold again, lying on the bare floor. I struggled to my feet as the knock came again. My hand shook as I opened it. By now I didn’t know what to expect. Would it be Raymond again? Agnes? Or some other thing to announce the end of my sanity.

What I did not expect was a Catholic priest. He was short, and a bit portly, with close-cropped hair and deep smile lines around his mouth. He introduced himself as Father Edwin Burroughs and told me that “Annie” had asked him to pay the place a visit. I didn’t know any Annie and told him so, and he seemed slightly confused, said she worked as a nurse at the John Radcliffe Hospital.

This allayed my fears enough that I let him in, and I asked him if he was some sort of exorcist. Father Burroughs smiled and told me yes, that’s exactly what he was.

So I told him my story as he went around examining the house. He nodded as I went through what happened, occasionally asking a question about what had been said or how I had felt. Finally he seemed satisfied and said he’d do what he could. He explained that exorcism was really only for demons and it wasn’t something he could do to ghosts, at least not officially - whether or not ghosts actually existed was apparently just as divisive a question within the church as outside of it - but he would go through some blessings and see if he could help. He asked me to wait outside while he worked, so I headed into the back garden and waited.

As I stood there in the cold, my eyes fell on the tree. That creepy, damn tree. I don’t know why, but at that moment I felt an intense, maddening anger at that tree. I picked up a crowbar that lay on a nearby pile of wood and, drawing my arm back, I swung it at the trunk, burying it with all my might.

I felt something warm and wet spray out where I had hit it. Sap? No, it didn’t feel like sap. I turned on my torch to see blood flowing from the wounded tree. It ran down the crowbar and dripped onto the earth, running in rivulets. As it reached the roots I saw something else in my torch’s light, curling up from the base of the tree were old, black scorch marks.

At that moment I made my decision. It was easy, like destroying this tree was the only thing to do, the only path to follow. I found a long chain among the building materials in the garden and wrapped it around the still-bleeding trunk, then attached the ends to my car. It took me less than a minute to pull it down, and there was no more blood. When the tree lay on its side, uprooted and powerless, I gazed into the hole where it had sat and noticed something lying there in the dirt.

Climbing down, I retrieved what turned out to be a small wooden box, about six inches square, with an intricate pattern carved along the outside. Engraved lines covered it, warping and weaving together, making it hard to look away.

I opened the box and sitting inside was a single green apple. It looked fresh, shiny, with a coat of condensation like it had just been picked on a cool spring morning. I picked it up. I wasn’t going to eat it, I’m not that stupid, but more than bleeding trees or phantom burning, this confused me.

As I took it out of the box, though, it began to turn. The skin turned brown and bruised and started to shrivel in my hand. Then it split. And out came spiders. Dozens, hundreds of spiders erupting from this apple that was rotting right before my eyes. I shrieked and dropped it before any of them could touch my arm. The apple fell to the ground and burst in a cloud of dust. I backed away and waited until I was sure all the spiders had left before retrieving the box. I smashed it with a crowbar, and threw the remains into a skip.

Father Burroughs returned shortly afterwards. He told me he’d done his prayers and hoped that it would be some help. If he noticed the felled tree, he didn’t ask any questions about it, instead he just handed me his business card and told me to give him a call if there were any further problems. The house didn’t feel any different, but there was no smell of burned hair, no heat or ghosts or any weirdness I could see. I worked on that house for another week, and I don’t know if it was the father’s prayers or my uprooting the tree, but I didn’t encounter anything else unusual during my time there. After that, my part of the job was finished, and I haven’t been back to Hill Top Road since.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Ah, head trauma and latent schizophrenia - the ghost’s best friends. Aside from excessive indulgence in psychoactive drugs, it seems to me that there is simply no better way to make contact with the spirit world. Still, glibness aside, the history of 105 Hill Top Road does bear investigation. And while I trust Mr. Lensik’s testimony of his own experiences about as far as I can throw a bleeding tree, there is a note in the file mentioning that Father Edwin Burroughs put down his own version of these events in Statement 0218011. While I have yet to locate that particular file in the chaos that passed for Gertrude Robinson’s archive, the suggestion that there may be external corroboration does lend some potential credence to Mr. Lensik’s wild tale. No other workers on the building site at the time reported any disturbances like the ones reported by Mr. Lensik.

Martin was unable to find the exact date the original house was built but the earliest records he could find list it as being bought by Walter Fielding in 1891. It was inherited by his son Alfred Fielding in 1923, and then by his grandson, Raymond Fielding, in 1957. There was no record of it being used as a halfway house, certainly not one connected to the local Catholic diocese, although the Church of England records for the area that Sasha got access to were unfortunately incomplete. The older residents of Hill Top Road back up the account given by the nurse, Anna Kasuma, as related here.

Tim managed to organise an interview with Mrs. Kasuma, but she apparently could provide no further information beyond what she told to Mr. Lensik. She did admit, though, to asking Father Burroughs to take a look at the house, as she was worried about it, and had seen him perform exorcisms before. There doesn’t seem to be any print evidence of what happened to the house; no news stories or similar regarding the fire. But one resident did provide a photograph of the house in flames.

Raymond Fielding’s obituary briefly reported his death as having been due to a house fire, and lauds his work with troubled youth, but gives no details about either. Agnes remains something of a mystery, as we have not been able to find any definitive proof that she even existed.

Except… We cannot prove any connection, but Martin unearthed a report on a Agnes Montague, who was found dead in her Sheffield flat on the evening of November 23rd 2006, the same day Mr. Lensik claims to have uprooted the tree. She had hanged herself. Her age is given at 26, which doesn’t match up at all.

But tied by a chain to her waist was a severed human hand, a right hand. Its owner was never identified, but the coroner was apparently quite perplexed, as tissue decay would seem to indicate that the hand’s original owner must have died at almost the exact same time as Agnes.

Two families have lived in the house since this statement was originally made but no further manifestations have been reported on Hill Top Road.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Julia Montauk, regarding the actions and motivations of her father, the serial killer Robert Montauk. Original statement given December 3rd, 2002. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
My father was a murderer. There’s no way I can reasonably deny it at this point; the evidence provided by the police was overwhelming, and I saw his shed myself. I’m not here to try and clear his name. There wouldn’t be much point, anyway, as I’m sure you know he died in prison last year. Seven years isn’t much to have served out of a life sentence, but I doubt it was the early parole he’d have hoped for.

Sorry, maybe that wasn’t in the best taste. Still, his passing is why I feel like I can tell this story; something I’ve never really felt free to do before now. I always expected him to talk about it during the media frenzy that surrounded his trial, but for whatever reason, he kept quiet. I think I understand a bit more now why he never spoke about it, preferring people draw their own conclusions, but at the time, I couldn’t fathom why he just sat there silently, letting others talk for him.

I’d like to tell someone now, though, and I’ve only recently finished my court-appointed counselling sessions, so I’d rather not tell the tabloids and have ‘MY FATHER KILLED TO FUEL CULT MAGIC, SAYS DAUGHTER OF MONSTER’ splashed over page 7 of the weekend edition. So that leaves you guys. Respectable is hardly the word I’d use, but it’s better than nothing.

So yes, my father killed at least 40 people over the course of the five years prior to his arrest in 1995. I won’t recount the lurid details - if you’re interested you can look up Robert Montauk in the newspaper archive of any library. There’ll be plenty there: the papers clearly didn’t care much about the American bombing, because in April of that year they seemed to be talking about nothing but my father. There are also a couple of books on him, none of which I can really recommend, but I guess Ray Cowan’s No Bodies in the Shed is the closest to what I’d consider accurate, although it does imply that I was an accomplice, despite the fact that I was twelve years old at the time.

Honestly, I discovered most of the details from the newspapers and the court, just like everyone else. My father spent my formative years killing dozens of people and I had no idea. But the more I think back over my childhood, the more sure I am that there was something else going on. I don’t have any theories as to what any of this means, but I just need to get it down on paper somewhere. And this seems as good a place as any.

I’ve always lived in the same house on York Road in Dartford. Even now, after all that’s happened, and all I know about what went on there, I can’t bring myself to leave. As far as I know, the shed came with the house; it always sat in the garden: old, wooden and silent. I don’t recall it being used until after the night my mother disappeared. That’s when everything started to get strange.

My memory of early childhood is patchy - mostly isolated images and impressions - but I remember the night she vanished like it was yesterday. I was seven years old, and had been to the cinema that evening for the very first time in my life. We had been to see The Witches at what was back then the ABC, down on Shaftesbury Avenue. I had seen films before, of course, on our tiny living room television, but to see a movie on the big screen was awe-inspiring. The film itself was terrifying, though, and even now I’d say it’s far scarier than any “child’s film” has a right to be. I remember I spent a lot of it close to tears, but had been so proud of the fact that I hadn’t cried at all. When we got home, I lay awake for a long time. That scene where Luke is transformed into a mouse kept playing in my mind, and for some reason, it left me too afraid to go to sleep.

It was then that I heard a thump from downstairs, like something heavy falling over. I didn’t have a clock in my room, so had no idea what the time was, but I recall looking out of the window and the world was dark and utterly silent. The thump came again, and I decided to go downstairs and see what it was.

The landing was almost pitch black, and I tried to be as quiet as possible so nobody would know I was there. The fourth stair down from the top of the staircase always creaked, and still does in fact, but I don’t think I’ve ever heard it creak louder than it did that night as I crept down them so slowly. The lights downstairs were all turned off, except for the kitchen light, which I could see from the bottom of the stairway.

I walked into the kitchen to find it empty. The back door stood open, and a cool breeze blew through it that made me shiver in my pyjamas. I saw something shiny laying on the table. Reaching up, I found my mother’s pendant. The design had always struck me as beautiful: it was silver, an abstract shape of a hand with a symbol on it that I believe was meant to represent a closed eye. I had never seen her take it off. In my child’s mind, I assumed that she had just left it on the table, an accident, and that the open door meant nothing. I went back upstairs, necklace clutched firmly in my hand, to return it to her. She wasn’t in bed, of course. The space next to where my father lay fast asleep was empty.

I gently touched my sleeping father’s shoulder, and he awoke slowly. I asked him where mum was, and he started to say something when he saw the silver chain clutched in my hands. He quickly got out of bed and started to get dressed. As he pulled on a shirt, he asked me where I had found it, and I told him, on the kitchen table. Following me downstairs, his gaze was immediately locked on the open door, and he paused. Instead of going outside, he walked over to the kitchen sink and turned on one of the taps. Immediately there began to flow a dark, dirty-looking liquid and the sick, salty smell of brackish water hit my nose, though at the time I didn’t understand that’s what it was.

The light in the kitchen blew out at that moment and the room got very dark. My father told me everything was fine, that I should go back to bed. His hands shook slightly as he took the pendant from me, and I didn’t believe him, but I did what I was told anyway. I don’t know how long I lay there, waiting for my father to return that night, but I know it was getting light outside when I finally fell asleep.

Eventually I woke up. The house was quiet and empty. I had missed the start of school by hours, but that was fine, because I didn’t want to leave the house. I just sat in the living room, silent and still.

It was almost evening again by the time my father actually returned. His face was pale and he barely looked at me, just walked straight to the cupboard and poured himself a glass of scotch. He sat next to me, drained the glass, and told me that my mother was gone. I didn’t understand. Still don’t, really. But he said it with such finality that I started to cry, and I didn’t stop for a very long time.

My father was a policeman, as I’m sure you’ve read, so as a child I just assumed that the police had looked for my mother and failed to find her. It wasn’t until much later that I discovered they’d had never even had a missing persons report filed on her. As far as I know, I never had any living grandparents, and apparently no-one noticed she was gone - which was strange, as I have vague memories of her having friends over a lot before she vanished. Everyone assumes she was one of my father’s first victims, but there was never enough evidence to add it to the official tally. It doesn’t really matter.

For what it’s worth, I don’t think he did it. I won’t deny it makes sense from the outside, but I remember how devastated he was when she disappeared. He started drinking a lot. I think he did try to look after me as best he could, but most nights he just ended up passed out in his chair.

That was also when he started spending a lot of time in the shed. I’d never really paid it much attention before. As far as I was concerned, the sturdy wooden structure was just the home of spiders’ nests and the rusted garden tools my parents would use once a year to attack the overgrown wilderness that was our back garden. But soon after my mother’s disappearance, a sturdy new padlock was placed on the door, and my father spent a lot of time inside.

He told me he was woodworking, and sometimes I’d hear the sounds of power tools from inside, and he’d present me with some small wooden token he had made, but mostly there was silence. It should probably have bothered me more than it did, the hours he spent in there, and that odd smell I sometimes noticed, like tinned meat. But I never really paid it much attention, and I had my own grief to deal with.

He was gone most nights as well. Often, I would wake up from one of my nightmares to find the house silent and empty. I would look for him and he would be gone. I never despaired at this, for some reason, not like I had when my mother vanished. I knew he would return eventually, when he was finished with what I had decided must be ‘police business’. Sometimes I’d lie awake until he returned.

Once, as I lay awake, I heard him come into my room. I pretended to be asleep. I don’t know why, but I thought I’d be in trouble if he found out I was awake. He walked over to me and gently stroked my face. His hands smelled strange. Back then I didn’t know the scent of blood, and mixed with that faint, saline smell of brackish water. He whispered to me then, when he thought I was asleep, promised to protect me, to make sure that “it wouldn’t get me too”.

There was a strangled sound to his words; I think he might have been crying. As he left, I opened my eyes just enough to see him. He stood by the door, his face in his hands, wearing light grey overalls that were stained with a thick, black substance. I often wish I’d asked him about that night. I wonder, if he’d known I was awake, if I had asked him in that moment of weakness… Well, it’s far too late for that now.

Over the next couple of years, I noticed that my father seemed to be injured quite a lot, and there was rarely a time when he didn’t have some sort of plaster, bandage or bruise visible. I’d also occasionally find small bloodspots or smears on the floors or tables, especially in the hall. I got very good at cleaning them, and it never occurred to me to pay much attention to where they came from - I just assumed the blood was my father’s.

He started staying home during the day, and told me he’d been permanently assigned to the night shift. I believed him, of course, and it was only after his arrest that I discovered that had been the point he’d resigned his job on the police force. I don’t know where the money came from after that, but we always seemed to have enough.

Knowing what I know now, it sounds awful to say, but those were some of the happiest years of my childhood. I’d lost my mother, but my father doted on me, and together it seemed like we would get past our pain. I know I’ve made him sound like an alcoholic recluse who lived in the shed, but those were generally nocturnal activities for him. During the day was time he spent with me.

There was only one time I recall him going into the shed during the day. This was a couple of years after my mother’s disappearance, and I must have been about ten. The phone in the kitchen started ringing, and my father was upstairs. I had recently received permission from my father to answer the phone, so I was excited to take up my new responsibility. I picked up the handset and said my memorised phone script into the receiver: “Hello, Montauk residence!”

A man’s voice asked to speak with my father. It was a breathy voice, like that of an old man, and at the time I decided he had a German accent, though, when I was young, a lot of different nationalities and accents were lumped together in my mind under the label “German”. “What is this regarding?” I asked, as I had a whole phone conversation memorised and wanted to use as much of it as possible. The man sounded surprised at this and said hesitantly that he was from my father’s work. I asked him if he was from the Police and after a pause, he said “Yes”. He asked me to tell my father that it was Detective Rayner on the line, with a new case for him.

At this point my father had come down to the kitchen to see who was calling. I told him, and he visibly paled. He took the handset from me and placed it to his ear, not speaking but listening very intently. After a moment, he told me to go up to my room, as this was a “grown-up” conversation. I turned to leave, but as I was heading up the stairs, the light bulb in the landing blew.

The bulbs in our house broke often - my father said we had faulty wiring - so even at that age, I was quite adept at changing them. So I turned around and headed back downstairs to fetch a new bulb. As I approached the cabinet where we kept them, I heard my father’s voice from the kitchen. He was still on the phone and he sounded angry. I heard him say, “No, not already. Do it yourself.” Then he went very quiet and listened, before finally he said okay, that he’d do it as soon as possible. He put down the phone, then went over to the cupboard and poured himself a drink. He spent the rest of the day in the shed.

The one question they kept asking me over and over during the investigation into my father was whether I knew where the rest of the bodies were. I told them the truth, that I had no idea. They claimed they wanted to confirm the identities of the victims, which they couldn’t easily do with what was left.

I didn’t know where the bodies were, but I also didn’t tell them of the other way they might have identified the victims: my father’s photographs. I didn’t say anything, because I had no idea where he kept them, and I thought it would only make things worse if they couldn’t find them, but, yes, my father took photographs.

During those five years, I had gradually started to notice more and more canisters of photograph film left around the house. This puzzled me since, though my dad and I did sometimes go on short holidays, we never took a lot of pictures. Asking him about it, my father told me he had been trying to learn photography, but didn’t trust developers not to ruin his films, as he’d apparently had problems before.

I suggested he make himself a darkroom for developing them himself. I’d seen one in Ghostbusters 2 on TV the previous Christmas, and loved the idea of having a room like that. His face lit up, and he said he’d convert the guest bedroom. He then warned me that once it was done, I could never go in there without his supervision - there would be lots of dangerous chemicals. I didn’t care; I was just so glad that an idea of mine had made my father so happy.

That summer, my father converted the guest bedroom into a darkroom for developing photographs. Like the shed, it was locked almost all the time, but occasionally my father would take me inside and we’d develop photographs of cars or trees, or whatever else a ten- or eleven-year-old with a camera takes pictures of. Mostly, though, my father worked in there alone, and kept the door locked while he did. He seemed almost happy those last couple of years.

I didn’t have an unsupervised look inside until a few weeks before my father was caught. It was a Saturday evening in late autumn, and my father was out of the house. I spent the day watching TV and reading, but as it started to get dark, I found myself bored and alone. Passing by the door to what was now the darkroom, I noticed that the key was still in the lock.

I sometimes think back to that day, and wonder if my father left it deliberately. He’d been so careful for so many years, and then he just forgot? I knew about the dangers, but something inside me couldn’t resist going in.

There were no photos stored there. To this day, I don’t know where my father kept his developed pictures. But there were about a dozen images hung out to dry. They’re still vivid in my mind - black and white and washed in the deep red of the darkroom. Each photo was of a person’s face, close up and expressionless, their eyes were dull and glassy.

I had never seen corpses before, so didn’t really understand what I was looking at. On each face were thick black lines that formed these symbols that I didn’t recognise, but they were clearly drawn on the faces themselves, not just on the photographs. I don’t remember the symbols in any great detail, I’m afraid, just the faces that they were drawn onto, though they weren’t people I recognised. Nor did they match any of the photos the police showed me later.

I never went back in the darkroom after I closed and locked the door behind me that day. I spent the next weeks wondering if I should tell my father what I had seen. I didn’t know what I had seen - not really - but it felt like a bad secret, and I didn’t know what to do.

Finally, I decided to tell him. He was drinking on the sofa at the time, and he turned off the television as soon as I mentioned going into the darkroom. He didn’t say a word as I told him what I’d seen, just looked at me with an expression on his face I’d never seen before. When I was finished, he stood up and walked towards me, before taking me in his arms and giving me the last and longest hug I would ever get from him. He asked me not to hate him, and told me it would soon be over, then turned to go. I had no idea what he was talking about, but when I asked, he just said that I needed to stay in my room until he got back. Then he left.

I did what I was told. I went up to my room and lay in bed, trying to sleep. The air was heavy somehow, and in the end I spent the night staring out of the window at the street below. I was waiting for something, though I didn’t know what.

I remember it was 2:47 in the morning that it started. I finally had an alarm clock, and the image of it is still clear in my memory. I was thirsty, and went downstairs to get a glass of water. I turned on the tap, but what flowed out was a thick stream of muddy brown, brackish water. It smelled terrible, and I froze as I remembered the last time that had happened. My father still wasn’t home, and I went into the living room to watch desperately out of the window, looking down the street for his return. I was terrified.

As I stared down the road, I was struck by how small the puddles of light were from the streetlamps made, stretching far into the distance. But not as far as they should’ve gone. There were fewer lights than there should be, I was sure of it. Then I saw the light at the end of road blink off. There was no moon out that night, and all the houses were quiet; when the streetlights stopped, there was nothing but black. The next closest streetlight failed. Then the next. And the next. A slow, rolling blanket of darkness, making its unhurried way towards me. The few lights still on in the houses along the road also disappeared as the tide approached. I just sat there, unable to look away. Finally, it reached our house, and all at once the lights were gone and the darkness was inside.

I heard a knock on the front door. Firm, unhurried and insistent. Silence. I did not move. The knocking came again, harder this time, and I heard the door rattle on its hinges. As it got louder it began to sound less and less like a person knocking and more like… wet meat being slammed the study wood of the front door.

I turned and ran towards the phone. Picking it up, I heard a dial tone, and would have cried with relief if I wasn’t already crying with fear. I dialled the police, and as soon as they picked up I started to babble about what was happening. The lady on the other end was patient with me, and kept on gently insisting I give her the address until finally I was composed enough. Almost as soon as I had told her where I was, I heard the door begin to splinter. I dropped the phone and ran towards the back of the house. As I did so, I heard the front door burst behind me and I heard a… growl - it was rumbling, deep and breathy like a wild animal, but had a strange tone to it that I’ve never been able to place. No matter where I turned, it sounded like it came out of the darkness right behind me. I didn’t have time to think about it as I ran into the back garden, and into a light that I did not expect. There in front of me was the shed. It glowed, a dull, pulsing blue from every crack and seam. I didn’t stop, though, as I heard again that growl behind me, and I ran towards it and pulled at the door.

The shed was not locked that night, and to this day I don’t know if I regret that fact. The first thing I saw when I opened that door was my father, bathed in the pale blue light. I couldn’t see any source for the glow, but it was so bright. He was knelt in the centre of an ornate chalk pattern scrawled on the rough wood of the floor. In front of him lay a man I didn’t know, but he was clearly dead - his chest had been cut open, and still gaped and bled feebly. In one hand my father held a wicked-looking knife, and in the other, he held the man’s heart.

My father was chanting, and as the song rose and fell, the heart in his hand beat to its rhythm, and the blue light brightened and dimmed in time. I looked at the walls, and noticed that they were covered in shelves, each of which contained glass jars, full of what I would later learn was formaldehyde containing a single heart - which also beat in time with the one that dripped in my father’s hand. It was an odd thing to notice at the time, but I remember that the dead man wore the same pendant as my mother - a silver hand with a closed eye design.

I don’t know how long I stood there staring. It might have been hours or it might have been only a moment or two. But then I heard that growl behind me and sensed a presence so close that I could feel the darkness on my back. Before I could react or move or scream, my father’s chant came to a crescendo and he plunged the dagger into the beating heart. All at once, the presence vanished, and the blue glow died. I could no longer hear the beating of the hearts. In the silence, I realised I could hear police sirens in the distance. I heard my dad tell me he was sorry, and then he started to run.

You know the rest. Manhunt, trial, prison, death. They say there were 40 hearts kept in that shed, not including his last victim, but of course the police didn’t arrive until all that was left of it was a grisly trophy cabinet. Whatever I had seen my father doing in there, its effects had long since vanished. I don’t know why my father did what he did, and I doubt I ever will, but the more I go over these events in my head, the more sure I am that he had his reasons.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

There’s not much more to be added here. The police reports on Robert Montauk are predictably thorough, and there are few details to be added. The vast majority of research into this case has already been done by the serial killer enthusiast community which, though weird and deeply unsettling, does often prove to be surprisingly useful in high-publicity cases like this.

In addition to the body of one Christopher Lorne, 40 preserved hearts were recovered from Robert Montauk’s shed. They were arranged on the walls on individual shelves forming patterns of eleven hearts on each inner wall and seven on the wall with the door. Photos of the patterns match up to the various formula of sacred geometry but don’t appear to correspond exactly with any specific school. Of possible significance also is that fact that the rest of the bodies were never found.

The symbol on the two pendants is that of the Peoples’ Church of the Divine Host, a small cult that grew around the defrocked Pentecostal minister Maxwell Rayner in London during the late eighties and early nineties. I knew I recognised the name from Statement 1106922 though, currently, it just looks like a coincidence.

Christopher Lorne was a member of the church, and his family hadn’t heard from him in the six years prior to his murder. Mr. Rayner himself disappeared from public view sometime in 1994, and the group fragmented shortly afterwards. The police made many attempts to follow up on this lead in the Montauk case, but were never able to locate any members willing to make statements.

The house on York Road is still inhabited, though the current owners pulled down the shed over a decade ago and replaced it with a patio.

Robert Montauk died in Wakefield Prison on November 1st 2002. He was stabbed forty-seven times and bled out before anyone found him. After reading this statement, three points of interest occur: no culprit or weapon was ever found connected to the killing; he was apparently alone in his cell at the time, which was supposed to be locked; and at the time of his death the light bulb in his cell was found to have blown out, leaving him in darkness.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Trevor Herbert, regarding his life as a self-proclaimed vampire hunter. Original statement given July 10th, 2010. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Right then. Been almost 50 years I’ve been meaning to pay you people a visit and get this down on paper, but I finally got here. So where to start? My name is Trevor Herbert, like I put at the top of your form there, and I’ve been homeless for most of my life. In fact, if you lived in Manchester, there’s a good chance you’d have heard of me.

They call me “Trevor the Tramp”. I mean, I’m not exactly easy to miss, am I, and I’ve been living there in public view for so long I guess I’ve become kind of an institution. Helps that I’ve always had a kind of uncanny knack for guessing people’s ages. People will come up to me on the street and ask me to guess their age, and I’ll tell them and most of the time they’ll be shocked when I get it right. It’s fun. So everyone around Manchester knows about Trevor the Tramp, sure. I hear someone even made me a page on the Internet and it got a few thousand likes. I don’t know exactly what that means but it sounds nice.

Obviously that’s not why I’m here, though, is it? No, I’m here because I have also dedicated my life to finding and killing vampires.

I have killed five people that I know for sure as vampires, and there are two more that may or may not have been. There is one man I have killed, unfortunately, who I am now sure was human, but I also know he was a violent criminal so I try not to feel too badly about that. I’m sure it’s hard to accept for anyone, even an organisation such as yourselves, but I do not have proof to give you except for the vampire teeth that I will leave with this statement.

Do not feel bad about reporting me to the police for the murders, as I am sure you must, since I have recently received a diagnosis of late-stage lung cancer, and it is doubtful I will be living much longer anyway. That is the main reason for finally putting down on paper the details of the mission I have been secretly undertaking for the last half a century.

I killed my first vampire in 1959. At that point I was still living a mostly normal life, save perhaps for the abuse my family was subject to from my father. He was a vile man who ended up killing my mother in ‘56. It was a clear-cut case of drunken murder, but the courts ruled it as an accident, and my father stayed out of jail. Luckily, myself and my brother only had to endure four months of unpleasantness from him before he finally finished drinking himself to death. I was thirteen, when he finally died, and my brother was fifteen. Following his death, there were several attempts to rehome us as orphans, but they always split us up, and we couldn’t be doing with that, so we’d generally run away. After a while, it became so we were happier finding our way on the streets than in another stranger’s home.

It was in autumn of 1959 that we were taken in by Sylvia McDonald. It wasn’t any sort of official fostering agreement, but it was getting to be quite cold at the end of October, and it just saw us shivering in a side street next to the Kings Arms Hotel, as it was back then, on Tipping Street before the ring road took it over. Looking back, I believe it to have been visiting the pub for the purposes of locating down and outs for use as victims, and in my brother and myself, I must say, it successfully found some.

It looked like an older woman, a widow I assumed, from the way it dressed in black and had a strange manner, which I now know to be the mark of the vampire, but back then I paid no attention to it. Many of the older folks had lived through both wars, and it was not uncommon for them to be somewhat strange. I thought this was the case with Sylvia McDonald, and after a small amount of discussion, my brother and I agreed to the offer of food and shelter.

Let me say a little bit about the vampire’s manner, because once I taught myself to read, I read as much on the subject as I could, and it isn’t covered often or clearly in those books I have found. You see, from my own observations, I believe a vampire to be more like an animal than a man. That is not to be taken as merely a turn of phrase, but more to do with how they work. I do not believe vampires are human in anything more than their appearance, nor have I ever seen evidence that they create more of their kind through feeding.

One thing that should be noted is that they do not speak. In fact, they are in my experience totally silent, having no need for air and no room in their throats for a windpipe. They are able to make themselves understood, however, with absolute clarity, though the manner through which they do so has never been clear to me. When Sylvia McDonald came to us in the alleyway that day, we understood that was the name it gave itself and that we were being offered a meal and a bed, even though it never uttered a single sound.

More than that, I do not recall the fact that it never said a word as striking either of us as strange in the slightest. I have never fully understood how they are able to do this, and I doubt that I ever shall, but I can only assume it to be some instinctive form of hypnosis or mind control.

Another misconception I have always faced when trying to discuss vampires is that people think they cannot go out during the day. They can. While I have witnessed them avoid direct sunlight if possible, and wear generally more covering clothes when moving around during the daytime, they seem to have no significant problem doing so. I would describe them as weaker during the day, but whether this is scientifically due to the sunlight, or simply because evil has less power in the daylight hours is unclear to me. Sylvia McDonald came to us on an overcast afternoon, and enough of its pale flesh was uncovered that, were sunlight to truly harm a vampire, then it would likely have been destroyed.

On that afternoon, my brother Nigel and I agreed to go back to the house of Sylvia McDonald in the hopes of a roof over our heads for a little while. She lived on Loom Street, which is still there, though the house itself was torn down long ago, and there’s just a bit of scrubland now where it used to be. I sometimes go there to pay my respects, since my brother has no burial or grave I can visit.

The house was old, even when I went there in 1959, and entering it I was hit by a stale, coppery smell that I did not recognise as old blood at the time, since I was barely 16 and did not have then the experience I have now. The furniture and wallpaper had clearly not been changed in many decades, and a thick layer of dust covered everything.

Even the floor was pale with dust, except for a stark line where Sylvia McDonald moved, the train of its dress dragging behind it. I remember wondering whether Sylvia McDonald walked exactly the same route through the house always, as I saw other clear lines of passage in the rooms we passed through. None of the furniture looked used, and when I picked up a book from one of the shelves, the pages were solid with damp and mould. I began to feel very uneasy at this point, but whatever powers of persuasion the vampire had calmed me enough to continue following it with my brother.

We went up the stairs, and I was led to a small room with a bed in it. I was made to understand that this would be my room, and was left there as Sylvia McDonald led my brother away to the room next to it. When it returned, it brought a bowl of fruit and offered it to me. The fruit was clearly a few weeks old, and in various stages of rotting, but just to appease the thing I found an apple and a couple of grapes that seemed edible and I ate them. It watched me silently the whole time, and then turned and walked out towards Nigel’s room.

By this time, whatever the creature had done to make me compliant seemed to be starting to wear off, and I was realising just how wrong everything was. I was also realising that it didn’t look like there was any easy escape from the house. All the windows I had seen were barred, and I recalled Sylvia McDonald had locked the sturdy-looking front door behind it after we had all entered. So instead, I just laid down in the old musty bed and I waited.

Couldn’t rightly say what I was waiting for, but soon enough it got dark, and I assumed Sylvia McDonald had gone to sleep, not yet realising the manner of being that I was dealing with. I wanted some light to comfort me, but the old house seemed to have no electricity at all, so I used my cigarette lighter on a candle I found next to the bed and crept towards the door. It wasn’t locked, thankfully, and I left the room assigned to me and walked over to where I believed my brother was.

I went in and found him lying in his own bed, pretending to sleep. After a bit of talk, it became clear that Nigel was no happier with our situation than I was, and we both resolved that another night on the cold streets was better than staying with this strange woman. As we talked through possible ways to escape, however, we heard a rustling sound outside the door, and the handle began to turn. Not wanting to anger our strange host, I crawled under the bed to hide, while Nigel returned to pretending to sleep.

From my vantage point under the bed, I could see the door open, and the skirt of Sylvia McDonald enter and move towards the bed. I simply laid there and tried not to make a sound. I am not proud of this, and sometimes have a certainty that my inaction led directly to my brother’s death, but most of the time I accept that, if I had alerted the vampire to my presence, then I would also have died.

Either way, the fact of the matter is that I did nothing as I heard the sounds of a struggle overhead, and Nigel’s strangled cry. The creature turned quickly and hurled him down, something fell to the floor in front of me, but I didn’t look at it, my eyes locked on Sylvia McDonald as it pounced upon my brother. It opened its mouth for what I then realised was the first time since we met it, and I could see nothing inside save for a dozen long, thick, pointed teeth like a shark.

In one fluid movement, it plunged those teeth into my brother’s neck and tore out a great chunk of flesh. Blood started to spurt from Nigel’s spasming body, as Sylvia McDonald’s throat began to twitch. Its jaw detached and a long tubular tongue about the thickness of my forearm snaked out of its throat and clamped onto the gushing wound. There was an awful slurping sound, the first noise I’d ever really heard the creature make, as the tongue sucked the blood from my brother’s throat.

I just lay there watching as its stomach began to distend and swell, the now bulbous belly straining against the black dress it wore. After the longest ten minutes of my life, the vampire finished. Its tongue retracted back into its throat, still dripping blood onto the now-pale corpse of my brother, and it lay back upon the floor, apparently contented.

As this had been happening all my energy had gone towards not screaming or giving away my presence. But as the vampire lay satiated on the floor, I turned my attention to what had fallen from Nigel’s hand when he had been dragged out of the bed. It was his pocket knife. I had no idea what a small knife like that would do against a creature that seemed far stronger and faster than me, but I didn’t see any option other than to try.

I moved so slowly as I reached for the knife that at times it seemed like I wasn’t moving at all. I was worried that the creature would spot me and strike as it had with Nigel, although I now know that smell is in fact the vampire’s major sense and, with all the blood around, there was little chance of it detecting my scent.

Grasping the knife in my hands, I crept over towards the creature as it placidly digested my brother’s life, until I stood over it. I felt a sudden surge of rage and adrenaline come over me and with a speed and strength I never knew I had, I plunged the knife into Sylvia McDonald’s blood-bloated stomach.

It burst like a sick balloon, and blood began to pour out. The creature’s eyes shot open and it clutched at the wound desperately. Its throat was not capable of uttering a scream but its face displayed a silent pain and anger as it flailed on the floor. Stumbling back, trying to wipe the blood from my eyes, I felt an unexpected burning in my hand. I realised I’d touched the still-lit candle on the bedside table.

I don’t know what I expected to happen when I grabbed the candle and pressed it to the dry part of Sylvia McDonald’s dress. I was just trying to find anything else I could do to harm it before it could recover from its split belly. But I certainly didn’t expect it to catch like dry tinder. The fire spread quickly over its repulsive form, though it did slow somewhat where the clothing or flesh was still moist with blood. It struck me that the vampire must be a very dry creature when not fresh-fed and engorged. Perhaps I had struck before the liquid could spread throughout its body.

Whatever the reason, Sylvia McDonald was alight, and to such a degree that the rest of the room was starting to catch fire as well. I was distraught at the idea of leaving this house without my brother, but he was clearly dead, and I needed to escape.

I recalled the vampire had been carrying a handbag when we first met it, and had used a key from it to lock the front door. It did not have the handbag with it now, though, so I began to desperately search the other rooms of the house, trying to find it. I did find it in the end, in what I assume to be the vampire’s bedroom. I’ll not describe it in detail, except to say that it appears to be where the creature took most of its meals. Hopefully that makes the picture clear enough for you. I found the key, though, and escaped that house before the fire did me any serious damage. I was terrified of the police coming and thinking I was a murderer, so I didn’t stick around. I just fled into the night.

It was almost a decade before I encountered another vampire. I’d been living on the streets all that time, occasionally in and out of various institutions, and had just about managed to convince myself that Sylvia McDonald had just been a bad reaction to the stress of watching my brother’s murder. It was in the late 60s that I learned different.

It was 1968, I remember because that was the year United won the European Cup, and I did quite well out of it - people being generous to begging when they’re happy over a sports win. On a Friday night, I would generally spend my time around the Oasis Club in Lloyd Street, and hit up for change anyone who was slightly the worse for drink. Well, this night in particular I was doing quite well, as it was a warm June evening not too long after the Cup Final, and everyone was in a good mood.

Now, about half eleven that night, I spied a stranger all turned out for dancing, making his way from the club with a lady friend. I reckoned they might be good for a tanner, so made my approach. I gave them the spiel and waited. The man looked at me and I understood he wouldn’t be giving me any money, and I stepped away. It was as he turned to leave I realised that he hadn’t opened his mouth, and memories of Sylvia McDonald came rushing back to me in a flash.

I wasn’t sure what to do, so I followed behind them at a distance. I didn’t try to hide or disguise myself, as I had long since learned, and it’s true now as it was back then, that no-one pays any real attention to a tramp. As I watched, I saw the clearly drunken woman asking this stranger questions, and each time he’d just look at her, and she’d smile as though he’d given some reassuring answer, and stumble on behind him. All the while he never once opened his mouth.

I didn’t rightly know what to do about this. I had no weapon save my brother’s old pocket knife which I had kept sharp all these years, and while I was pretty sure of what I was seeing, I was still hesitant to attack with no provocation and no plan. As we walked, I kept an eye out for any discarded wood or timber and, sure enough, noticed a broken wooden palette partially sticking out of a bin. I grabbed a long shard and used my knife to quickly hack it to a point, ignoring the splinters. While I had not, at that time, done much research into the creatures I faced, believing as I did my experience as a youth to be the product of a disturbed mental state, I was still aware of their supposed weakness to wooden stakes.

I had now followed the vampire, who I would later find out called itself Robert Arden, and its victim back to the building where it apparently lived. It let itself in the front door and the woman followed. I wasn’t fast enough to get in before the front door closed and obviously didn’t have a key, so I went round the windows and, luckily, it seemed the vampire lived on the ground floor.

I watched through the window as it led its victim into a sparsely-furnished living room. I couldn’t see any obvious signs of previous slaughter, but I remembered how cleanly Sylvia McDonald had sucked up all the blood from my brother, so this did not strike me as odd. I gently tried the window, and found it locked, so searched the garden for the heaviest stone I could find, and watched what was happening inside. I had to be sure. Soon enough, Robert Arden moved smoothly behind its now-seated prey, and finally opened its mouth to reveal those rows of shark-like teeth I knew would be there.

I hurled the rock I held through the window, showering the room with broken glass, and causing the woman to scream in shock. Robert Arden raised its head in surprise and for one moment our eyes locked and I knew I had made a terrible mistake. The woman looked at her monstrous companion and, seeing his now open mouth, screamed her terror even louder.

In a single movement, far quicker than I expected, Robert Arden was through the window and on me. I struggled and fought, but it was far stronger than I was, and I could barely keep its jagged teeth from finding my throat. It was the first and last time I ever touched a vampire’s skin with my own. The flesh was cold and spongy, like the inside of a bruised apple, and I felt bile rise in my throat even as I fought for my life.

Finally, its teeth bit into my neck. Not enough to kill me outright but with enough force to cause the blood to flow. At that moment I saw a sort of frenzy enter the eyes of Robert Arden and with a spasm its leech’s tongue surged from its throat and I felt it attach to my neck. I do not know if you’ve ever felt your blood being sucked out of you, but I would not recommend it.

Now it is at this point I have something of an admission to make. For the three years preceding this event, as well as on and off through the years since, I have had a relationship with the drug heroin. I tried it for the first time shortly after Nigel’s death and since then I have periodically relapsed. I have always tried to keep this a secret, as I am aware that I have a certain reputation to uphold and I would not want it to be damaged with the revealing of my addiction. But it is important to this account, as I believe it was whatever heroin still remained in my system that night that caused the vampire Robert Arden to remove its tongue from my neck and start to shake, as though having a violent choking fit.

I lay there, trying to compose myself enough to fight back, when I became aware of the screaming. The woman, who had been brought in as a victim, was standing over the flailing Robert Arden, stabbing it repeatedly with a kitchen knife. Strong and quick as it was, the vampire didn’t seem to be able to cope with the sudden onslaught of violence, and was on the ground. This gave me the precious seconds I needed to get to my feet and locate my improvised wooden stake. I took aim, and plunged it into where I believed the thing’s heart should be. It was easier than I thought it would be - the chest was soft and yielding and there didn’t seem to be any ribcage to stop the blow. Robert Arden went rigid and froze, apparently unable to move its body, though I saw its eyes darting around wildly.

It was at that point the woman, whose name I never discovered, dropped the knife and ran. I never saw her again, but she had already saved my life. I took out my cigarette lighter and set Robert Arden alight. Like Sylvia McDonald before it, it caught fire in a matter of seconds and, by the time the police arrived, there was nothing left but a small patch of scorched tarmac. I was lucky that night, and nobody saw anything or called the police before I was finished and had made my way from the scene, but I was always more careful after that.

Following that night, though, I was never again worried that I might have been wrong about the existence of vampires. I always kept my eyes open for them, although sometimes I was too eager, as was the case of Alard Dupont, who I killed in 1982, and later discovered was a human. It is my belief that they are very rare, and feed only infrequently, as all evidence I have seen points to their feeding being fatal. If there were many vampires, or if they ate often, the number of disappearances would quickly become noticeable to the rest of society.

I do not know what they do with the bodies of their victims, and this has always perplexed me, as they do not have any mechanism for eating solid food, and I do not believe there are many, if any, cases of murder where the body is found completely without blood. I certainly do not think they rise as vampires themselves, as the vampire population seems far too small for this to be a possibility.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

According to Martin, who was here when they took this statement, it was at this point in writing that Mr. Herbert announced he needed some sleep before continuing. He was shown to the break room where he went to sleep on the couch. He did not awaken; unfortunately succumbing to the lung cancer right there. Martin says the staff had been aware of how serious Mr. Herbert’s condition was, and had advised him to seek medical aid prior to giving his statement, but were told rather bluntly by the old man that he would not wait another second to state his case. I can’t decide whether this lends more or less credibility to his tale.

Regardless, there is substantial evidence to support the version of events told by Mr. Herbert in all aspects except the vampirism. There is a news report of a 1959 fire that consumed a house on Loom Street and apparently claimed the life of an 18-year-old boy, although no mention is made of the homeowner. And a police report from 1968 confirms the disappearance of Robert Arden in Manchester amid circumstances of violence, including a broken window and signs of a fire, though no human remains were found.

There is also a murder report concerning one Alard Dupont, whose partially burned corpse was found in his home on August 2nd, 1982. Unfortunately, Mr. Herbert was never able to give details of others, so we cannot corroborate further.

There was, however, a small bag left on top of this statement, which appears to contain six shark teeth of varying sizes. According to correspondence with the Zoology Department at King’s College, they didn’t match any currently known species.

Personally, I don’t know what to think. I certainly don’t believe in wild tales of vampirism, but I can’t help but notice that the statement above appears to be a photocopy of a photocopy, and can’t find these supposed vampire teeth anywhere in the Archives or the Secure Containment Room. I don’t know where the originals are, but the file number is listed among multiple information requests from the Institute’s government and law enforcement contracts. It may be that they take Mr. Herbert’s statement far more seriously than I do.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Antonio Blake, regarding his recent dreams about Gertrude Robinson, previous Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute. Original statement given March 14th, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, current Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
First off, I should admit that I lied to get in here. I know your criteria are very clear: “Any supernatural or unexplainable experience or encounter occurring within the realms of apparent reality. No out-of-body experiences, visions, hallucinations or dreams”. And this is about dreams, make no mistake, but I think you need to hear it anyway. Whether you believe it or not, well, that’s up to you. I just don’t feel like I could rightly go on my way without at least trying to explain myself.

You see, I had a dream about you.

I know how that sounds, and I can assure you we don’t know each other, but the Institute, the building, even this room… I saw them in my dream as clearly as I see them here before me now. So no, I don’t have any tale about a shambling horror in the dark. I ask you to read on, though, as this wasn’t the sort of dream you just ignore.

I should probably give a little bit of background about myself rather than just gibbering about dreams and prophecies. I’ve lived in London for almost a decade now. I came here to do my undergraduate degree at the London School of Economics. I ended up taking a position with Barclays shortly after graduating and did well enough there. It didn’t last long, though; I barely made it through a full year before the stress of my new job, not to mention some problems in my personal life, led to me having a full nervous breakdown. I’d broken up with Graham, my boyfriend of six years and had to leave the home we shared, going to stay with some of the few friends that had survived my year of stress-fuelled outbursts and constantly cancelled plans.

It was there, sleeping on my friend Anahita’s sofa, in the depths of my misery, that I first started to have the dreams. I found myself standing atop the very peak of Canary Wharf and overlooking the Barclays building where I had spent so many hateful hours. Behind me I could feel the pulsing beat of the light that stands atop that looming tower; it thrummed through me and I could see the glow pass across my skin like oil but, try as I might, I could not turn around to look at it.

It was then that I noticed that there was something wrong with the city below me. It was dark, lit by the sickly orange glow of the streetlamps and there too something pulsed oddly. Looking down I could see a web of dark tendrils criss-crossing the streets and crawling up the buildings. They were like blood vessels, thick and dark, some as wide as roads and some as thin as a telephone wire, and they all throbbed in time with the beat of light behind me. I needed to get closer.

Lucid dreaming has never been a skill I’ve possessed, and I generally get swept along in the current of whatever runs though my sleeping consciousness. So it came as something of a surprise when my wordless desire to get closer became manifest and I moved forward. Even more surprising was that my forward motion brought me over the edge of Canary Wharf’s roof and I fell. I plummeted, I don’t know how far, until I hit the ground with a crack. I would have expected this to wake me but instead I simply lay there, spasmed by dream-pain, you know, the knowledge of pain without the white heat of nerves. After some while - who can say how long in sleep - I became standing again, and started to move through that veined orange hellscape that I knew to be the City.

As I moved - I will not say walked, for that would not be quite correct - I saw people. Not many, and not moving, but they were there. They leered like photographs, overexposed and washed out, caught and immortalised in a single instant. Each had those tendrils wrapped around them, pulsing against their stillness.

One had a thin black vein that snaked around her arms and appeared to vanish into where her heart would sit. Another, an older gentleman in a dark blue suit, laid on the ground with a beating mass the size of a tree trunk crushing his legs. On the face of each and every person I saw was that same rictus of surprise, pain and terrified confusion. I had never dreamed like this before, and I knew there was something in it beyond my own reeling consciousness.

Eventually my wandered drifting led me back to the Barclays building. Something inside me wanted to go inside, to see what it was like in this rhythmic, fleshy dreamscape. The lights were on, but like they were a sodium-vapour orange like those outside, and as with all the other lights their brightness pulsed in and out in that beating world, which seemed to rule over all this place.

The desks were set up as I knew them to be but there were no people that I could see. I took the stairs, as something about the thought of riding the lift filled me with a cold dread. It was 23 floors to the office where I worked but if I even had legs in this place they were not what carried me up that stairwell. It was there I found my own desk, clear and empty as I had left it some weeks before.

I then knew all at once that there was something in the small office next to me. I felt it in the rhythm of my dream, and I carried myself across to see. It had been the office of my old line manager, John Uzel, and he was inside. One of the dark black veins had snaked in through the window and seemed to have suspended John two feet from the floor, wrapped lightly around his throat. Like all the others he was still, an image held in place, dangling and hanged by this pulsing mass of otherness.

I awoke at that point. Normally, a nightmare would leave me a sweating, wide-eyed mess, but that morning I felt invigorated. It came to me that, while the dream had in all ways appeared as nightmarish, I had never felt any true discomfort. Even my fall at the beginning had been curiously lacking in any true distress. I tried to put it from my mind as I searched through the jobsites, but something about the dream lingered, like a foul odour you only smell when you’ve stopped thinking about it.

I hadn’t seen John Uzel in several months - he had left the company some time before my breakdown, and I had never known him that well, but the image of his face in my dream wouldn’t leave me, so I resolved to find out why he had returned to my mind in such an odd manner. For whatever reason, the idea that there might be no cause for his appearance, that it may be entirely incidental, never occurred to me.

I had been offered the chance to return to Barclays after my rather dramatic departure, once my mental health was in a better state, but at that point I couldn’t even take the Docklands Light Railway, as I’d get a panic attack whenever the train hit Poplar and the looming figure of the Barclays building and Canary Wharf came into view. I had declined the offer, but I still kept in contact with some of my now ex-colleagues, so emailed a few of them to see if they knew how to get in touch with my old manager. It didn’t take long to find out the truth - John Uzel had apparently hanged himself following the loss of a bitter custody battle with his ex-wife.

I’m sure I don’t need to tell you that this shook me deeply. Again, there was no question to me that it may have been a coincidence. I knew, I still know, that what I saw in my dream deliberately mirrored his fate.

I don’t remember my dreams for the next few nights, but I do remember that I had that same dream again the following Saturday. It was the same in every detail, except there were different people. Some remained the same, but others were new or had disappeared, and those that I remembered had faded, like wallpaper left too long in the sun.

Again, I began atop Canary Wharf, with the light pulsing behind me, and once I was down I found myself able to traverse the city at will, watching all the figures wrapped in those throbbing veins. I returned to where John had been, and sure enough, there he remained, though faded to the point where if I didn’t know who he was already, I could not have identified him. The tendrils that wrapped his throat were as dark as they ever had been, though.

Knowing now what I did about John, I could see the deaths of each poor soul I saw as I wandered through the dream. The dark vines would clutch the head of the stroke victim, the lungs of a cancerous smoker and would bury the car crash victims under the vastness of their bulk. I did not go towards the hospital, as so many of those thick and rubbery lines led towards it that I could see no space within that was not choked with them.

These dreams have been a regular part of my sleeping for about eight years now. Even as life improved and I found a new job and place to live - believe it or not, I now work selling crystals and tarot cards in a “magic” shop - they continued to crop up a few times each month. If there’s one advantage to working where I do, it’s that I’ve been able to read every book on esoteric dreaming ever written, but none of them even come close to what I have experienced. I tried to make peace with the dreams for some time, reasoning that as long as they caused me no discomfort, they were harmless. This worked fine until I saw my father in the dream, walking down Oxford Street, the pulsing veins climbing up his leg and into his chest.

I tried to warn him of course - asked leading questions on his health and how he was feeling, whether he’d been tired recently. I even went so far as to book him a doctor’s appointment, much to his annoyance. It did no good, though - ten days later, the heart attack came for him, and despite the rapid response of the paramedics and how much of his medical history I had immediately to hand, there was nothing I could do to save him. He died on New Year’s Eve, and as 2014 ended, so did any hope I had of my dreams doing good in the world.

It took a month and a half for my father’s image to fade from the orange glow of the streetlamps in my dream London. And by my estimation he had appeared about ten days before his death. I tell you this because I feel you have a right to know the sort of timescales that we’re dealing with here. I haven’t had much of a chance to experiment or see anything more specific, I’m afraid. There are so many people who die in London, and I know so few of them.

But I recognise you. As I write these words I can see you in the other room, eyes locked on whatever book you’re diverting yourself with; I recognise you from my dreams. They said at the front desk that you review all the written statements, so I can only hope that you take the time to read through this one fully.

Allow me to explain in a bit more detail. It was the night before last that the dream came again. It started as it always did, with me on top of Canary Wharf, but almost immediately I could feel that something had changed. The dull orange glow that thrummed up from below seemed muffled somehow and there was an oppressive knowledge within me that something was deeply wrong. Looking down, I could see that the veins, whose domination of the dreamscape had only ever been partial before, had thickened and now seemed to cover almost the whole space of every street.

They still pulsed as before but rather than pumping their dark, unknown cargo invisibly, there would now sometimes be seen a dark red light that travelled along the inside of them. I thought I saw this red light illuminate faces and shadows within those tendrils but it moved too quickly for me to be sure of any details beyond the direction. This was not something I had ever seen happen before in these dreams, and I was aware that I had two choices: to follow the light to wherever it might lead or to turn and retreat into the waking world. I decided to follow the path of that scarlet glow, though I found I was floating some distance from the ground, so thick were the vines below.

I followed them for some time; how long exactly I couldn’t say. I never seemed to travel faster than walking speed in these dreams and yet the distances I covered as I passed through the orange twilight of this pulsating other-London seemed far further than the time it took to traverse. Such is the way of dreams, I suppose. All I know for sure is that I realised after some time that the red light was leading me towards Vauxhall and the Thames. There were fewer people visible here - did rich people die less? Or perhaps they just had greater control over where they died? Or maybe they just couldn’t be seen, fighting off death for so long that when it came at last its icy tendrils covered every inch of them.

I crossed the Thames, and the bridge was knotted high with the flashing vines. One or two of them seemed to pass through the river itself, and the occasional flash of red could be seen beneath the water, but most of them were laid across the bridge. Finally, I saw the destination of the blood-tinged glow. A small building, standing alone the other side of the bridge near the Embankment. I couldn’t have told you what the street was called; the London of my dreams has no street signs. It was old, pillared and possessed of a quiet dignity. It was this building into which all the veins flowed: every door, every window was solid with them. When the bursts of red light passed into it, the whole building glowed crimson. I could see a bronze plaque next to the door, not quite covered. It read: The Magnus Institute, London. Founded 1818.

I entered, though I couldn’t tell you how. The veins blocked every possible entrance entirely and yet I found myself moving through them. I saw the corridors, these corridors, choked with that shadowed flesh, and passed through them, following that red light that would now pulse so bright that I knew were I to see it awake it would have blinded me. It led me to a room, the label of which was still visible, and read “Archive”. I entered to see walls covered with shelves and cabinets stretching off into the distance. These shelves were coated in a sticky black tar, which I knew at that moment was the thickened, pulpy blood that pumped through each and every one of those veins.

At the front of the room stood a desk, and the veins were wrapped around it so tightly and so thick that I knew that this must be where they ended. Getting closer I realised that there was a person sitting at that desk and it was them that all of this scarlet light was flowing into. I could see none of the figure’s body beneath the flesh that enclosed them, but as I moved around I saw the face was uncovered. It was your face and the expression upon it was far more fearful than any I had seen in eight years of wandering this twilight city. That was when I awoke.

I’m well aware that I don’t even know your name, and I have no responsibility to try and prevent whatever fate is coming for you. Based on my previous experience, such a thing is likely impossible anyway, but after what I saw I couldn’t live with myself if I didn’t at least try. I did as much research into your Institute as possible, and arranged an appointment to provide a statement about some spurious supernatural encounter. Even then I was told that the Archivist only reviews the written statements once they have been taken, so here I am, pouring out my lunatic story on paper in the hopes that you might eventually read it.

If you do see this in time and read this far, then to be honest I don’t know what else to tell you. Be careful. There is something coming for you and I don’t know what it is, but it is so much worse than anything I can imagine. At the very least, you should look into appointing a successor.

Good luck.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I’m sure I don’t need to explain how disquieting it was to find this statement tucked into the recent archives. I’m not… entirely sure whether to bring this up with Elias or not. When he hired me, he was vague on the point of what happened to my predecessor, Gertrude Robinson. I asked if she would be available to train me up for a handover, but he simply said she had passed away and not to worry about it overmuch. Actually, now I think about it, his exact phrase was that she “died in the line of duty”, which I had assumed meant having a stroke at her desk or something similar - she was quite elderly, I believe.

I mean, I don’t believe in the predictive power of dreams, obviously, but still, it’s a deeply unsettling thing to find. I had Tim look into it, as I don’t entirely trust the others not to have written it as a practical joke and slipped it into the archives. Unsurprisingly, he came up with nothing. Antonio Blake is a fake name, and all of the contact details he provided were similarly fraudulent. It’s almost certainly a joke, a bit of hazing for the new boss, maybe? Best not to engage with it, I think.

Still, I might have a word with Rosie, to make sure I get a copy of any new statements as soon as they’re made, not just once the researchers are done with them. She seemed very open to idea of recording them, so I’m hopeful she’ll be willing to do this, too. If this is genuine, well, I have no idea if Gertrude got the chance to read this statement before she passed away, but if anyone comes in ranting about dreaming my death, then I very much want to hear about it.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Lesere Saraki, regarding a nightshift at Saint Thomas Hospital, London. Original statement given February 11th, 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’m a nurse at Saint Thomas Hospital, down in Lambeth, near Waterloo Station. Technically these days I work at Guys and Saint Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, but Guys Hospital is at a completely different site the other side of London, so for the sake of clarity, I work at Saint Thomas.

Christmas is one of the worst periods to be working at a hospital, and in the Accident and Emergency department it’s even more unpleasant. Pensioners who can’t afford to properly heat their homes, drunken party-goers who overindulge and hurt themselves, even just people who didn’t look where they were going and slipped on a patch of ice. Christmas brings out the side of people that always seems to lead them to the hospital, so I was relieved last year when I got my shift pattern and learned my last A&E shift of the season was going to be on the 23rd, two full days before Christmas itself.

That was the good news. The bad news was the 23rd was also the Friday immediately before the big day, and that meant people finishing work for the holidays and going out for some celebration. When you work in Accident and Emergency, there are few words that fill your heart with such dread as the word “celebration”.

That night wasn’t as bad as some I’d seen, a few broken bones and a couple of drug-fuelled injuries, but no fights or angry drunks, which was a blessing. It must have been about half-past one in the morning that the ambulance arrives. They had radioed ahead and we knew that we had a pair of severe burn victims being brought in, so we were as ready as we could have been.

I was heading out to meet the ambulance, when I noticed that the A&E waiting room was totally silent. I looked around, and there were all the people there that I expected to see, some cradling obvious injuries, but none of them made a sound. They continued to stare at their phone, read books, comfort one another, but not one of them spoke. I didn’t have much time to really consider what I was seeing as, at that moment, I heard the ambulance pull up outside and ran off to see to the patient.

By the time I arrived, they were already wheeling him out and the doctor was assessing his burns. The doctor’s name was Kayleigh Grice, and she was a junior doctor at Saint Thomas. She started giving some instructions to myself and the EMTs, but I was struck by how quietly she was speaking to me. She didn’t whisper but every word was quiet, as though it was a real effort to get them out. Nobody else seemed to notice, so at the time I assumed the effect was due to my own lack of sleep. I’ve always had difficulty adjusting to the late nights and this time had been particularly bad.

We finished transferring him to a treatment room, the only available one we had that night, and the doctor and EMTs returned to get the other patient while I began dealing with the burns on the first one.

I’m forty-eight years old, and I have been a nurse for most of them, so I’ve seen a good number of burns in my time. I was prepared for some deeply unpleasant scenes when the call came in, as bad burns can be some of the nastiest injuries you see working in a hospital. These ones surprised me. They were second-degree, which is severe, but not usually such as to require hospitalisation, except that they appeared to cover his entire body. Every inch of exposed skin showed signs of this burning and, cutting away his clothes, it became apparent that the damage had spread there as well.

Anything hot enough to cause this sort of effect should have damaged his clothing, or even melted them onto the skin in places, but they were utterly unharmed, as though he had been dressed after he’d been burned, or the heat had passed right through his clothes without touching them.

He was a tall man, heavy-set, with the sort of build I associated with an athletic middle age. Any hair he might have had was gone, apparently burned off, and his clothes were a nondescript black suit and white shirt. He didn’t scream or cry or moan in pain, and in fact, the doctor had had to check his pulse when he’d come in to confirm he was still alive. He was, but as far as I could tell, he appeared to be sleeping peacefully.

I had just started treatment when the second patient was wheeled in. He was in almost identical shape to the first, except for the fact that the burns seemed to stop at his neck, along a clear line. It was as though he’d been wearing a choker that the damage couldn’t get above but his neck was bare. He was smaller than the first man, and younger, I’d guess in his mid-thirties. He was clean-shaven, but had long hair dyed completely black. He wore a similar suit to the older man, except that over the top he wore a long black leather coat, just as undamaged as the rest. It looked new, and I felt quite bad having to cut it off him, but we had to confirm how extensive his injuries were.

Like the first, he was completely covered in almost uniform second-degree burns, except for what at first I thought were small black scorch marks. Looking closer, I saw that they were eyes. Small, tattooed eyes on every one of his joints: his knees, his elbows and even his knuckles, as well as just over his heart. I would have expected the burns to have almost destroyed tattoos that small, but instead they were unblemished, and the skin about a centimetre around each one also didn’t seem to have been affected.

To say I was unsettled by this would have been something of an understatement. I barely noticed when Dr. Grice and the EMTs returned. They seemed to be talking normally now, and discussing who these two people were. Apparently, the fire brigade had responded to reports of a blaze in a building site near Saint Mary’s churchyard, and had turned up to find the two men lying unconscious. There had been no fire, although the ground they lay on showed several burn marks and a metal bar that had been lying nearby appeared to have bent slightly as if from great heat. The fire service had called out an ambulance, and they had brought the men here.

Apparently, the older one hadn’t had anything on him at all - no ID, no phone, no keys, nothing - while the younger man had only a Zippo lighter with an eye design on it, similar to the one tattooed all over him, and a old passport that identified him as Gerard Keay. I never got a look at the passport, but from the way the EMTs were talking about it, I gathered the man was well-travelled.

It was at this point that the EMTs had to head out on another call, and Dr. Grice and I got down to treating the two men, the weirdness temporarily forgotten. Medically speaking, there was nothing abnormal about the burns, and it didn’t take as long as I had feared to get them properly cleaned and bandaged. Throughout it all, the two of them didn’t stir, and I wondered if they were comatose, but that sort of diagnosis would require a lot more testing, which probably wasn’t going to happen that night.

So, having finished giving them what treatment we could, the men were moved to one of the few wards with bed space, and I returned to working A&E. And, for an hour or so, I forgot about the odd strangers that lay unconscious just a few doors away.

I only noticed them again when I had to pass through that ward heading towards the nearby stockroom for some more gauze. As I walked through, I became aware of a sound coming from the bed of the older burn victim. I never did find out his name. I walked towards him slowly, straining my ears to hear what he was saying.

It was so quiet as to be almost inaudible, but was definitely words, the same words over and over; the more I heard, the more it sounded like most of them weren’t in English. The first sounded like “Asak” or “Asag”, then “Veepalach” and finally in English “The lightless flame”. The last part was very clear, and I assumed he was talking about whatever burned him, but he said it with such intensity that the words made me feel quite uncomfortable. His eyes were still closed and his lips were barely moving.

I started to feel warm, like there was a fever quickly creeping out towards my skin. It wasn’t the first time I’d had a reaction like this, though, so I took a moment to centre myself and the feeling receded.

The burned man was still whispering; I might even have called it chanting, and I wasn’t entirely sure what to do, so I checked his bandages to make sure they didn’t need changing and left to go and continue my shift. If I saw Doctor Grice, which was more than likely, then I could tell her that our mystery burn victim had started talking. Mostly I just wanted to get out of that room for as long as possible.

It was as I returned to the main Accident and Emergency reception that things started to get really strange. And by really strange, I mean that the reception was completely empty. I don’t care how late it gets, and at this point it was nearly three in the morning, the waiting room for A&E is always full, especially on a night like this. I mean, I’d been in there not five minutes before and there were upwards of thirty people but now it was utterly deserted. Even the staff at the admissions desk were gone.

I was freaked out, quite frankly, and started checking through all the examination rooms, the wards next door and the individual patient rooms. All empty, except for those patients physically too sick to move or hooked up to IVs. They lay there sleeping, and part of me wanted to wake them, just to hear the sound of another human being, to not be alone, but like I say it was three in the morning and, weird as this all was, I couldn’t justify waking up patients just to put my own mind at ease. I went as far as to make as much noise as possible directly outside their rooms, but they just slept on.

It was as I returned to the waiting room for the third time in as many minutes that I heard it. It sounded like the growl of an animal, a rolling, angry sound, and I realised that the floor was shaking, ever so slightly. I looked around for the source of the noise, I was getting more and more frantic by the second, and then I saw it.

Lined up against the wall of the waiting room were two vending machines. I rarely paid them any attention, as there were better options in the staffroom and one or both of them were usually out of order. But I now saw that the one on the left, a clear-fronted machine that stocked bottled soft drinks, was shaking violently.

As I got nearer, I saw why: in every bottle, in every row of the machine, the drinks appeared to be violently boiling. Cokes and lemonades and fruit juices shook and bubbled, before one by one, the bottles exploded, coating the inside of the clear plastic front with liquid that still kept steaming and hissing. It couldn’t have taken more than thirty seconds for all of them to pop, and then the waiting room was silent once again.

At this point, I was just about ready to abandon my shift and leave the hospital. Whatever was going on there, I wanted no part of it. I ran towards the door leading from the A&E to the chill of the December night, not something I would ever have thought I’d look forward to. As I approached, though, I noticed that the plastic at each end of the metal handles was ever so slightly warped. I tentatively touched the back of my hand to them and withdrew it almost immediately - I didn’t even have to touch it to feel the intense heat radiating from the door. I almost wept. If I was getting out of there, it wasn’t going to be through that door.

I started to make my way back through the wards, heading towards another exit, but as I passed through I could hear the burned man still mumbling to himself, louder now, so that his weird chant was audible even outside of his room. It was starting to get to me. I went in; I don’t know what I was planning to do, I just needed to make him shut up somehow. His eyes were open now, bloodshot behind the bandages and staring blankly towards the ceiling.

At that moment, I decided that I was going to shut him up, even if I had to physically hold his mouth closed. I approached him slowly and reached towards his face.

The second before I could touch him, a hand shot out and grabbed me by the wrist. I turned to see the other burn victim, whose passport had identified him as Gerard Keay, on his feet and shaking his head. His grip on my wrist was far stronger than I would ever have expected from someone that injured, and I could feel a heat through his bandaged hand, like his skin was still burning somehow.

I screamed. Why not? I’d already established no-one was around to hear me. He immediately released my hand and apologised, said he’d only been trying to protect me. I asked him from what and he gestured to the burned man, still lying motionless in his bed, chanting his nonsense phrases. Sparing a glance at his own wrapped form, he said that touching the man would have been a “bad idea”. He seemed to be in tremendous pain as he spoke, but did his best to hide it.

I didn’t say anything then. I wanted to ask what was happening and it seemed like he was waiting for me to do just that, but something stopped me. Something told me that if there was a coherent explanation for everything that had happened since the ambulance arrived, then I would be no better off for knowing it.

After a few seconds of awkward silence, Gerard spoke. He asked me if the paramedics had brought any items in with them. Specifically, he was after a small book bound in red leather and a brass pendant he had been wearing. He didn’t say what design had been on the pendant but I guessed it had been an eye. I told him that neither of those things had been brought in with him, and he was quiet for a long time.

After the last ten minutes spent desperately wishing for another human being to talk to, I should have been relieved with Gerard’s company. But watching him, standing and walking despite the burns covering eighty percent of his body, despite the sheer quantity of painkillers we had given him, he just made me very afraid. Finally he nodded, as though dismissing me, and limped past into the corridor, towards the supply cupboard.

I followed him, asked what he was doing. I got no answer, but he seemed to know the code to the door immediately and strode right in, scanning the shelves for something. He saw what he was after and picked up a small object wrapped in paper and plastic. I recognised it immediately as a sterile scalpel. He was going to kill the chanting man; I could feel it in the way he stared past me as I stood in the doorway.

He started walking towards me. The storage room was not big, and it took him barely a second before he was in front of me, but it was the longest second I have ever experienced as I tried to decide whether to risk my own life for that of the burned stranger, blankly chanting his unsettling prayer.

Behind Gerard, I saw bottles of saline solution start to bubble and boil. I stepped aside. He nodded in appreciation, and said something that I remember very clearly, even though it still makes no sense. He said, “Yes. For you, better beholding than the lightless flame.”

I didn’t try to stop him as he walked back into the ward. I just stood there and watched as he took out the scalpel, muttered some words I couldn’t make out, and plunged the blade into the centre of the chanting man’s throat. At that moment, there was the sound of sizzling, and a smell like rotten meat on a grill. I watched as the flesh around that wound began to blacken and crack. The bandages curled and disintegrated, and the scorched skin spread over his body like water. There was no fire, and I felt no heat, but over the course of twenty seconds I watched this man’s body cremate itself to ash. Even the scalpel was gone.

Gerard Keay walked over to the bed and, picking up the empty bedpan beneath it, gently swept the ashes into the metal basin and handed it to me, asking me to dispose of it. I took it and numbly walked out, heading towards a medical waste bin.

As I walked the corridor, I noticed a figure at the other end. It was Doctor Grice. I’m not ashamed to admit that I wept in relief as I ran to the waiting room and saw it once again full of people complaining and moaning to themselves. By the time I was finished and got back to the room, Gerard was lying in his own bed, apparently sleeping. I considered asking him now what had happened, but at that moment another ambulance arrived with three members of a Christmas party that had gotten dangerously out of hand, and just like that, the rest of my shift was gone.

Gerard Keay was treated for a further four days in the hospital before being discharged into the care of his mother. I tried to talk to him about what happened, but he was on a lot of painkillers and never seemed to really register I was there. It may have been feigned, I suppose, but in the end the result was the same.

Since then, I’ve just tried not to think about it. I’ve managed to get almost thirty years of nursing under my belt before something like this happened, so with any luck, I’ll be long retired by the time anything like it happens again.

I worry sometimes, though. Over the last few months, when I’m alone on the wards, I get the feeling I’m being watched. Not threatened or judged, just watched. I avoid that storeroom, particularly.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

There’s obviously a lot to unpack here, so let’s start with what is provable. Sasha managed to get access to the hospital records for this period and they do list the admission of Gerard Keay and an unknown male for burn injuries similar to what Ms. Saraki described. Furthermore, there are only discharge papers for Gerard Keay, and a short police report on the disappearance of the second burn victim. No evidence of foul play was found, and no official missing persons case was ever opened.

As far as the mystery man’s chanting goes, if it was indeed “Asag” that he was saying, then that’s quite interesting. Asag is the name of a demon in Sumerian mythology associated with disease and corruption, which doesn’t really seem to have much relevance to this statement except that it was also fabled that Asag was able to boil fish alive in their rivers. Admittedly, in Sumerian myth this was because he was monstrously ugly, but a curious coincidence nonetheless.

“Veepalach” might also be a mishearing of the Polish word “wypalać”, according to Martin, which means to cauterize or brand. Admittedly, if Martin speaks Polish in the same way he “speaks Latin,” then he might be talking nonsense again, but I’ve looked it up and it appears to check out. I can’t find anything conclusive on the phrase “the lightless flame,” however. It crops up in a lot of different contexts throughout various esoteric literatures.

It has not escaped my notice that this is the second time Gerard Keay has turned up in this Archive. I’d be very keen to get his statement, but unfortunately it looks like he passed away from a brain tumour late last year. We’re doing further research into him, though, and if we’re lucky maybe we already have a statement from him tucked away somewhere in these damn files.

We contacted Ms. Saraki to see if she wanted to make a follow-up statement, but she declined. Apparently, she still gets the watched feeling occasionally, but aside from that there haven’t been any other abnormal occurrences in her professional or personal life.

One final note: Sasha has finally been able to access the hospital’s CCTV footage for the night of 23rd December 2011, and it shows something quite startling. I had assumed that there was a significant hallucinatory element to Ms. Saraki’s story, and indeed the ward where Gerard Keay was admitted didn’t have a camera, but the Accident and Emergency waiting room did. At 03:11:22, it shows everybody in that room, which I personally counted at twenty-eight people, standing up and calmly filing out of the doors. After this, Ms. Saraki can be seen entering and leaving three times, once taking a minute to stare at something beneath the camera, which I assume to be the vending machine. The rest of the staff and patients do not return until 03:27:12, over fifteen minutes after they left, when they walk back in through the same doors. The footage does not contain any sound, and no alarm of any sort was recorded, so I cannot offer any guess as to why they left, or what they were doing in the intervening time.

There is one other thing that Sasha highlighted, however. At 03:22:52, the feed cuts out for less than a second, and is replaced for a single frame by a close-up of a human eye, staring back through the video feed.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Right, let’s try this.

NAOMI
Really? Does that thing even work? It must be thirty years old.

ARCHIVIST
I know, but we have previously had some success using it to record statements that our… digital recording software struggles with.

NAOMI
Yeah, well, that’s one way to put it. You need to get some better equipment.

ARCHIVIST
Believe me, I have been trying. Still, the tape recorder seems to work fine as a backup, and I can have it transcribed later, so for now if you’d be so kind -

NAOMI
You’re serious? You actually want me to tell my story into that rattling piece of junk? I see why no-one takes you guys seriously.

ARCHIVIST
You’re under no obligation to speak to us.

NAOMI
No, I just… I guess I’m just desperate. The last paranormal investigator I went to laughed at me when I suggested talking to you. Still, I-I guess you have to believe me.

ARCHIVIST
Something like that.

NAOMI
[Sigh] Okay, from where we left off?

ARCHIVIST
Probably best to start over. Name, date, subject, et cetera. I’m not optimistic that any of the previous recording will be salvageable.

NAOMI
Fine. My name is Naomi Herne, and I’m making a statement about the events following the funeral of my fiancé, Evan Lukas. The date is the 13th of January, 2016.

To be honest I’m not even sure I should be here. What happened was weird and, alright, I can’t think of a rational explanation for it, but I was distraught. I still am. I should go. I probably just imagined the whole thing. He’s gone and that’s all there is to it.

ARCHIVIST
That’s certainly possible. It might all be in your head, though there is the matter of the stone.

NAOMI
That could be… I don’t know. I just don’t know what to think.

ARCHIVIST
Take your time.

NAOMI
Wait, where are you going?

ARCHIVIST
I was going to give you some privacy while you make your statement.

NAOMI
Okay, it’s just… could you stay please? I don’t want to be alone.

ARCHIVIST
Very well. Let’s start from the beginning.

NAOMI (STATEMENT)
Alright. I guess the beginning would be when I met Evan. I’ve never really been the social type. I’ve always been more comfortable alone, you know? My father died when I was 5 years old, and my mother spent so much time working to keep us fed that I hardly ever saw her. I wasn’t bullied in school, or anything like that. I mean, to be bullied you need to be noticed, and I made sure that I wasn’t. It was the same in secondary school and even in uni up at Leeds. When everyone was moving out into shared houses for second year, I stayed in a nice cosy room for one in university accommodation. I’ve always just been happier alone.

Well, maybe happier isn’t quite the right word. I did get a bit lonely sometimes. I’d hear laughter coming from other rooms in my building, or see a group of friends talking in the sun outside, and maybe I’d wish I had something like that, but it never really bothered me. I knew my own company and was comfortable with it. I didn’t need other people and they certainly didn’t need me.

The only person who ever really seemed to worry about it was Pastor David. He worked in the Chaplaincy, and I saw him occasionally when work or stress was getting to me. My mum’s a Methodist, and I felt more comfortable talking to him that any of the secular counsellors. He used to tell me it wasn’t natural for people to live in isolation, that we were creatures of community by nature. I remember he always used to say that he was “worried I’d get lost”.

Back then, I didn’t know what he meant. I think I do now, though.

Anyway, the point is that when I graduated three years ago, I left Leeds with a first in Chemistry and no real friends to speak of. And that was fine by me.

I got a job as a science technician down in Woking. It didn’t pay well, and the children were a thick, entitled lot, but it was enough to live on, and kept me close enough to London that I could apply for the various lab jobs that I actually wanted. It was interviewing for one of these where I met Evan.

He was going for the same position as I was - lab assistant in one of the UCL Biochemistry departments. He got the job, in the end, but I didn’t care. He was so unlike anyone I’d ever met before. He started talking to me before the interview, and I amazed myself by actually talking back. When he asked me questions, I didn’t feel uneasy or worried about my answers, I just found myself telling this stranger all about myself, without any self-consciousness at all. When he was called in for his interview, I actually felt a pang of loss like nothing I’d known before. All for a stranger who I’d met barely ten minutes ago.

When I came out of the building after my own, somewhat disastrous, interview and saw him standing there waiting for me… I don’t think I’ve ever been happier than in that moment.

We went out, and dating gradually turned into living together. I’d had two boyfriends in the past - both short-lived relationships that ended abruptly. In both cases they said it was because they never really felt like I wanted them around and, looking back, that was kind of true.

With Evan, it was different. It never seemed like his being there stopped me being myself, or crossed into spaces that I saw as my own. Everything about being with him felt so natural that when he told me he loved me, it only came as a surprise to realise that we hadn’t said it already.

He had friends, as well, plenty of friends, how could he not? And he would take me out to meet them when I wanted to, and when I didn’t, he let me be. After a year with him, I actually had what could perhaps be called a social life and, more than that, I didn’t hate it. I always used to roll my eyes at people who said that their loved ones ‘completed them’, but I honestly can’t think of any other way to describe how it felt to be with Evan. I proposed to him after only two years, and he said yes.

I’ll skip over the bit where he dies. It’s only been a year, and I don’t want to spend an hour crying into your crappy tape player. Congenital, they said. Some problem with his heart. Always been there, but never diagnosed. No warning. One in a million chance. Blah. Blah. Blah. He was gone. Just gone. And I was alone again.

There was no-one I could talk to about it. All my friends had been his friends, and once he was gone it didn’t feel right to see them. I know, I’m sure they wouldn’t have minded, they would have said they were my friends too, but I could never bring myself to try. It felt more comfortable, more familiar, to be alone, as though Evan had just been some wonderful dream I was now waking up from.

I don’t remember the week between his death and the funeral. I’m sure it must have happened, but I don’t have any memory of it at all. After leaving the hospital, the next thing that is properly clear in my mind is walking into that big, austere house. I don’t remember where it was, somewhere in Kent, I think, and I must have been given the address by someone in Evan’s family who had organised the funeral.

It was strange. Evan never really talked about his family. He said he wasn’t on good terms with them because they were very religious, and he never had been. I’d never met or visited them, or even been told their names, as far as I remember. But they must have known me enough to invite me, as I somehow ended up at the right place. Just as well they took on the responsibility for the funeral. I was in no fit state to organise anything.

The house was very large, and very old. It had a high gate separating it from the main road, which has the name “Moorland House” carved into the stone of the gatepost. I drove there alone, my old, second-hand Vauxhall Astra complaining all the way. You remember that storm that hit at the end of last March? Well, I hardly noticed it. Thinking back, I really shouldn’t have been driving at all, but at the time, it barely registered. The trees were bending ominously when I finally parked at Moorland House, and I immediately lost the only respectful hat that I owned to the wind.

Evan had once told me that his family had a lot of money, and looking at this place I realised why the funeral was being held there. I could see round the side what appeared to be a well-kept mausoleum. The last resting place of Evan’s ancestors, and soon, I guessed, of Evan himself. This thought set me crying again, and it was in that state, weeping, windswept and soaked through from the rain, that I saw the door open.

I don’t know what I expected from Evan’s father. I knew he couldn’t be anything like the easy, charming man I’d fallen in love with, but the hard-faced stranger that confronted me on the doorstep still came as a shock. It was like looking at Evan, but as if age had drained all the joy and affection from him. I started to introduce myself, but he just shook his head and pointed inside, to a door down the corridor behind him, and spoke the only words he ever said to me. He said, “My son is in there. He is dead.” And then he turned and walked away, leaving me shaken, with no option but to follow him inside.

The house was full of people I didn’t know. None of the lovely, welcoming faces I’d come to know from Evan’s friends could be seen among the dour figures of his family. Each wore the same hard expression as his father, and I might have been imagining it, but I could have sworn that when they looked at me, their eyes were full of something dark. Anger, maybe? Blame? God knows I felt guilty enough about his death, though I have no idea why. None of them spoke to me or to each other, and the house was so quiet and still that at times it seemed like I could hardly breathe under the weight of the silence.

Finally, I came to the room where he was laid out. Evan, the man I was going to marry, was lying there in a shining oak casket that seemed too big for him, somehow. The coffin was open, and I could see him, dressed in a perfectly tailored black suit. I realised I had never seen him wear a suit before. Like everything else in his death, it seemed utterly alien to the life that had he had created for himself.

I remember going to my father’s funeral when I was very young. I remember seeing him lying there, after the undertakers had done their business. My father had looked serene, peaceful, like he had calmly accepted the reality of his passing. It had comforted me, as a child, though it had done little to blunt the acute sense of loss I felt. There was none of that on Evan’s face. In death he seemed to have that same hardness and reproach that I saw on every one of the silent family that claimed him for their own.

I don’t know how long I stood there. It felt like seconds, but when I turned around I almost shrieked to see dozens of black-clad figures stood there, staring at me. The rest of the Lukas family were standing, waiting without a word, as though I was between them and their prey. Which I suppose, in some ways, I was. Finally, an old man walked forward. He was small and hunched with age, his black suit hanging off his body like sagging flaps of skin. He spoke, “It’s time for you to leave. The burial is a family affair. I’m sure you want to be alone.”

I tried to reply but the words stuck in my throat. They stood there, waiting for me to respond or to leave, and I realised the old man was right. I did want to leave, to be alone. I didn’t care where I went, but I had to go, to get away from that awful place with its strange quiet watchers. I ran past them and out into the storm. Inside my car, I just turned on the engine and began to drive. I didn’t know where I was going, and could barely see a thing through my tears and the driving rain, but it didn’t matter. Just as long as I kept going, as long as I didn’t have to stop and think about what had just happened. Looking back, the only thing that surprises me about the crash is that it wasn’t bad enough to kill me.

When I became aware of myself again, I realised I was in the middle of a field, quite a distance from the road. The tracks behind me showed where I had skidded into the dirt. Luckily I hadn’t hit anything or flipped over, but smoke billowed from the engine of my poor old Astra, and it was clear I wasn’t going anywhere. It was dark, and the time on my dashboard said twelve minutes past eleven. My phone said the same thing. I had arrived at Moorland House at 6 o’clock, as instructed. Had I been driving for hours, or had I spent even longer with Evan’s body than I thought? I hadn’t hit anything, so I couldn’t have been knocked unconscious. Had I just been sitting there in my smoking car all that time?

It didn’t matter. The rain was beating down hard, and I needed to get some help. I tried to call the emergency services or use the GPS on my phone, but the screen just said “NO SERVICE”. I took a deep breath, trying to stifle panic, and got out the car. I was soaked through in less than ten seconds, as I struggled through the downpour towards the road. I could hear no sound except for the howling wind, and there were no headlights anywhere to be seen.

Having no idea where I was, I made the decision to turn right and began to walk. I tried to use my phone again, but as I reached into my bag I realised how much of the rain had soaked through. Pressing the power button only confirmed what I already suspected - my phone wasn’t working. Anger washed over me, and all the bitterness and rage that had been building over the worst days of my life surged of me, and I threw the useless lump of plastic at the ground. The corner shattered as it hit the road, then it bounced off the side and disappeared into the thick mud.

I suddenly felt very cold as I stood there in the road. Rain beating down, tears flowing freely, and utterly alone. I kept walking, desperately hoping to see headlights in the distance, but there was nothing but darkness and the steady pounding of the rain on miles of empty countryside in every direction. I didn’t have a watch, so without my phone I have no idea how long I walked. The cold bit into my soaked funeral clothes and I shivered, falling to my knees and just about giving up. No cars were coming, and I didn’t have the first clue where I was going.

It was then I noticed that the rain had stopped. Wiping the tears from my eyes I saw that a fog had gathered around me, and I could no longer see more than a few feet in front of me. I kept walking, though, as the clinging mist made me feel somehow even colder. The fog seemed to follow me as went and seemed to swirl around with a strange, deliberate motion. You’ll probably think me an idiot, but it felt almost malicious. I don’t know what it wanted, but somehow I was sure it wanted something. There was no presence to it, though, it wasn’t as though another person was there, it was… It made me feel utterly forsaken. I started to run, following as much of the road as I could see in the hopes of getting to the other side, but there seemed to be end to it.

I don’t know exactly when the hard tarmac of the road became dirt and grass, but I realised after a few minutes that I had strayed off the path. I tried to backtrack, but it was gone. All that remained was the fog and the skeletal outlines of half-glimpsed trees. The dark lines of them bent away from me at harsh angles, but if I tried to approach them then, rather than becoming clearer, the trees would disappear back into the hazy night and I would lose them.

Kneeling down, I was surprised to realise that the ground I was now standing on was not wet. The hard-packed earth was damp from the creeping mist but it did not appear to have been rained on. The despair I felt was quickly turning into fear, and I kept moving forward, further into the fog.

I realised afterwards that the night should have been far too dark to see the fog. There were no lights there to show it, and the moon had been shrouded in storm clouds all night, but despite this I could clearly see it. Shifting, slate-grey and smelling of nothing at all. As I walked I saw more shapes nearby. Dark slabs of stone, sticking out of the ground, leaning and broken. Gravestones. They spread out in all directions, and the gentle blurring of the mist did nothing to soften the hard weight of their presence. I did not stop to read them.

I kept moving until I reached the centre of what I can only assume was a small cemetery, and there I found a chapel. The top of its steeple was lost in the gloom and the windows were dark. I started to feel relief, as though I might have found some sign of life at last. I began to circle it, moving around to where I assumed the front doors were. As I went I noticed that there was stained glass in the windows but, without any light from inside, I couldn’t make out the design. Finally, I came to front of the building, and I almost lost hope. Wrapped around the handles of the entrance was a sturdy iron chain. I would find no sanctuary here.

I came very close to making a rash decision at that point. I started to shout, to scream for help, but the sound seemed muffled and disappeared almost as soon as it left my throat. No-one heard me, but I continued shouting for some time, just to hear the noise, even if it did seem to die as soon as it touched the fog. It was useless, though, and as I finished I felt the prickling damp flow in and out of my lungs. It was cloying and heavy and I decided I had to do something. I started to look around the ground for the heaviest rock I could find. I was going to get inside that church, even if I had to break a window to do it. Anything to get out of the fog. I was sure that eventually someone would find me.

I noticed that one of the graves had been slightly broken by age, and a small chunk of it could be seen on the ground. It had an engraving of a cross on it, and the weighty lump of stone now lay embedded in the graveyard soil. I bent down to lift it, but as I did so I saw something that froze me in place. The grave was open. And it was empty.

It wasn’t dug up, exactly. The hole was neat, square and deep, as though ready for a burial. At the bottom there was a coffin. It was open, and there was nothing inside. I backed away, and almost fell into another open grave behind me. I started to look around the cemetery with increasing panic. Every grave was open and they were all empty. Even here among the dead, I was alone.

As I stared, the fog began to weigh me down. It coiled about me, its formless damp clung to me and began to drag pull me gently, slowly, towards the waiting pit. I tried to back away, but the ground was slick with dew and I fell. My fingers dug into the soft cemetery dirt as I looked around desperately for anything I could use to save myself, and my hand closed upon that heavy piece of headstone. It took all my self-control to keep a grip on that anchor, as I slowly dragged myself away from the edge of my lonely grave. Flowing around me, the very air itself willed me inside, but I struggled to my feet. The image of Evan’s family suddenly came into my mind, and I vowed to myself that they would not be the last human contact I ever had.

I looked towards the chapel, and saw with a start that the door was now open, the heavy chain discarded on steps in front. I ran to it as quickly as I could, crying out for help, but when I reached the threshold I stopped, and could only stare in horror. Through that door, where the inside of the chapel should be, was a field. It was bathed in sickly moonlight, and the fog rolled close to the ground. It seemed to stretch for miles, and I knew that I could wander there for years, and never meet another. I turned away from that door, but as I looked behind me I could have wept - beyond the graveyard’s edge lay that same field. Stretching off into the distance.

I had to make a choice, and so I began to run from that chapel, into the field behind me. I nearly fell into a hungry grave but kept my balance well enough to get beyond them. The fog seemed to be getting thicker, and moving through it was getting harder. It was like I was running against the wind, except the air was completely still. I could hardly breathe as I inhaled it.

And then, as I found myself in the middle of that open, desolate field, I heard something. It was the strangest thing, but as I tried to run I could have sworn I heard Evan’s voice call to me. He said, “Turn left”. That’s it. That’s all he said. I know it sounds ridiculous, but that’s what he told me to do. And I did it. I turned sharply to the left and kept on running. And then… nothing.

ARCHIVIST
That’s when the car hit you?

NAOMI
Yes. I remember a second of headlights and then nothing until I woke up in the hospital.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

NAOMI
So what do you think? Was it real?

ARCHIVIST
Well, we’ll need to do some investigation into a few of the details that you raised, but at first impressions I’d say it was only real insofar as trauma can have a very real effect on the mind. Beyond that, it’s difficult to prove either way, but I would suggest you leave the stone with us, so we can study it. And it would likely help you move past this unpleasant incident. Some time with a more… qualified care professional might also prove helpful.

NAOMI
Right. I don’t know what I expected, really.

ARCHIVIST
We’ll let you know if we find anything.

NAOMI
Oh, this is ridiculous! I can’t believe I’ve wasted my time-

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Following Ms. Herne’s statement, we did as much follow-up as we were able, which admittedly wasn’t a lot. Evan Lukas did indeed pass away from heart failure on March the 22nd, 2015, and his body was taken by his family for burial. All requests to the Lukas family for information or interviews have been very firmly rebuffed.

At roughly one in the morning on the 31st of March, Ms. Herne was involved in collision with one Michael Getty. She had apparently run out into the road in front of Mr. Getty’s car near Wormshill in the Kent Downs. She was quickly taken to a hospital and treated for concussion and dehydration. Her car was found abandoned in a field five miles away.

There are no cemeteries matching Ms. Herne’s description anywhere near the road she was found, nor could there have been any fog, given the incredibly high winds during the storm that night. I’d be tempted to chalk this one up to a hallucination from stress and trauma, if it wasn’t for the fact that when she was hit, Ms. Herne was found to be holding a piece of masonry. It appears to be lump of carved granite with an engraved cross design. The size and style match what would conceivably be found atop a headstone, though we have been unable to trace its origin. Still attached to it is a small fragment of what we can assume would have been the marker itself. The only text that can be made out simply reads “forgotten”. I’ve arranged for it to be transferred to the Institute’s artefact storage.

Recording ends.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Lee Rentoul, on the murder of his associate Paul Noriega. Original statement given May 29th, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Let’s get one thing straight right off - this is not a goddamn confession, alright? If you go to the police with this, I will deny every word, and I know enough about the law to know that even if I spill my guts to you about all the horrible things I’ve done, it will count for nothing in court. It’s not like you’ll even be able to help me, I just… My mate Hester said he came to you a few years back, been seeing ghosts and that, and you guys looked into it and told him it was some sort of noise messing with his head, ‘infasound’ or something, and he’s fine now. I need that. I need you to tell me that it’s just coincidence and my mind’s playing tricks, and I need to not lose any more bits of me.

So yeah, I killed that asshole Noriega. Stabbed him in the throat and left him to bleed out on the dockside. Maybe that shocks you a bit, maybe not, but trust me when I say he had it coming. Eight years we worked together, and it was him that got carried away kicking McMullen’s head in and moved it from assault to GBH, but sure enough, when we get picked up he turns on me and I get pinned for it. Five years I served because of him, while he walked free as you please. I’d say that I was due a bit of payback, and I certainly got it.

It wasn’t my first choice, though. I’m not stupid, and parole keeps you on a short enough chain that slitting Noriega’s throat was not my top priority. Don’t get me wrong, it was something I’d been itching to do for five goddamn years, but I wasn’t in a rush. I had plenty of time to arrange something nasty for him, and I wanted him hurt more than I felt I had to do the deed myself. So when I got out in June last year, I bided my time and kept my ear to the ground. Tried to get in touch with him, but was told by the few friends we had in common that he wasn’t interested in talking to me. He’d clearly done okay for himself in the years I’d been away, and could afford some muscle to make sure that I didn’t bother him. I ended up with a couple of bruised ribs when I finally got tired of the run-around and tried to have it out with him properly. It was laying there, some grim side street in Lewisham of all places that I came to the decision that if I was going to hurt this asshole, and I mean properly hurt him, I was going to have to think outside the box a bit.

I decided to pay McMullen a visit. Before Noriega had gone to work on him, Toby McMullen was just some street punk. These days he was just a street punk who had trouble turning his neck. I’ve met plenty of born losers in my time, I mean it’s kind of a given in this business, but I’ve never met someone so intent on being a screw-up as McMullen. When I saw him, he was high as a kite and barely knew I was there, but you bet his eyes lit up when I mentioned Paul Noriega.

It took hours to get anything useful out of that waste of skin, but eventually I pieced together his side of this sorry tale. Noriega had paid him a visit in the hospital, apparently, before the police had picked us up, and promised that if he fingered me for the assault, then he’d have all of the narcotics his little junkie heart could dream of. Only once he was out of hospital and my conviction had gone through, it wasn’t two days before McMullen was out on his arse again, and Noriega didn’t want to know. Any idiot could have seen it would play out that way, but not poor, stupid Toby. Still, he’d been itching to get the knife in for almost as long as I had, and he had had the freedom to plan it, so I asked him if he had anything I could use.

I shouldn’t have been surprised when he suggested magic. Toby had always been into all of that mystical crap, even before the drugs, and if there was some half-baked New Age fad going round you could bet you’d find it dribbling out of his mouth whenever he was coherent enough to actually talk. I punched him in the gut and turned to leave. He followed me, doubled over and struggling for breath, begging me to help him. He said he was serious, said it wasn’t like the other stuff, said he knew someone with real power, who could put the hurt on Noriega, but he just didn’t have the money.

I should have kept walking. I should have shaken him off. I should have beat him so bad he couldn’t turn his neck the other way either. But I didn’t. I stopped and I listened to what that piece of human garbage had to say. I was an idiot.

So Toby took me to see his friend Angela. He never gave me her second name. I asked him what it was: Wicca, voodoo, some crystal bull? But Toby said no, nothing like that. Said he didn’t really know how it was supposed to work, but had a girl a few months back, had told him about Angela; said she’d used her services on a particularly unpleasant ex-boyfriend. Apparently he’d disappeared, and they never found a body. So then I’m thinking maybe there’s no magic there, just a killer with a schtick, but hey, if that was the case it was fine by me, just as long as Noriega got done.

When I finally met Angela, it was all I could do not to cave McMullen’s head in. I’d just about convinced myself I was going to be meeting with a hardened killer, maybe one that kept a bunch of spooky Halloween crap around, but still someone who’d get the job done. I wasn’t even put off when we pulled up to a well-kept suburban house in Bexley. But when the door was answered by an old lady in a lilac dressing gown, I almost lost it. McMullen asked if she was Angela, speaking in a quiet voice like he was actually scared of the geriatric fool. The old woman said yes, she was Angela, and asked us to come in.

The house felt almost as old as its owner - faded floral print wallpaper, dark oak furniture and threadbare carpets. The walls were covered with framed portraits, the sort you’d get in any cheap antique store or charity shop, although as we went into the living room I noticed something that I didn’t expect: they weren’t paintings, they were jigsaw puzzles, each completed and framed. And sure enough, when we sat down on the worn cloth sofa, there in front of Angela was another jigsaw, half-finished. I’ve got no problem with the elderly, and if they want to throw away their last years putting together a damn picture, then I’m sure not going to stop them, but it wasn’t exactly going to kill Noriega, was it?

I was so angry at this massive waste of my time, that when she offered us a cup of coffee, I almost put McMullen face-first through the glass table in front of us. I grunted something which Angela apparently took as a “yes please”, and so a few minutes later there I was drinking instant coffee from a chipped mug that this doddering old ass clearly hadn’t thought to wipe the dust off of. When she asked if I wanted Paul Noriega dead, I nearly choked.

She asked it very matter-of-factly, like it was a question on some form she knew the answer to but had to fill it in anyway. I glanced at Toby, who nodded at me, and I thought what the hell, I might as well play along. So I said yes. Yes, I did want him dead. And more than that, I wanted him to suffer. Angela smiled when I said that, a warm smile that suited her round face, and said that that wouldn’t be a problem.

I started to explain the situation, but she waved it away and told me that Toby had filled her in on all the details, and that there was just one thing she needed from me, that he couldn’t provide. I started to tell her that I wasn’t paying for someone’s gran to take out a hard case like Noriega, but she said no, she wasn’t after money. She said that she was “well-compensated” for the service she provided, and that all she needed from me was an object, anything that I had taken from Noriega.

Not a gift, she said, staring into my eyes with a look that I recognised from years of working with very unpleasant people. It wouldn’t work if it was a gift.

At this point I was starting to feel uneasy. Not scared, alright, I wasn’t scared of this old woman, but being around her was… bad. I don’t know how else to say it, she was bad. You’ve got to understand, I know dangerous, I understand dangerous, hell, I am dangerous. This was something else. But I wanted Paul Noriega dead so badly.

Five years ago, just before we’d been picked up by the police I’d borrowed his lighter. It was a battered old Zippo, used to have a picture of a topless woman on it, but now that was almost worn away. After he turned on me in questioning, I didn’t feel much like returning it to the treacherous backstabber, so I held on to it. I hadn’t thought much of it, but here it was, still in the pocket of my jacket, all those years later. I handed it to Angela, and she gave me that look again, and told me that it would work just fine.

And then we left. Angela told us not to worry about it, that Paul Noriega wasn’t going to be bothering us for much longer; we just had to wait until she was finished. Finished with what exactly, she didn’t say, she didn’t need to. We knew whatever it was we were probably better off not knowing.

The waiting came hard, though. After he’d had me roughed up, it seemed like Noriega had decided I wasn’t worth worrying about. I’d see him walking those streets like he owned them, his pair of leg-breakers in tow, and I knew there was nothing that I could do about it. He knew it, too. So I waited. And I waited. I waited for the shot, or the knife, or the poison or the… whatever would end him for good. It never came. Days turned into weeks and there he still was, as cocksure as ever.

I was patient. God, I was patient, but after three weeks I had almost written off that useless old bag as a time-wasting con job. I was going to give her one more week, just one, but then something came up that I couldn’t ignore. Word came down that Noriega was meeting someone at the docks, some fence by the name of Salesa. The man dealt mainly in stolen art and curios, valuable stuff, and was paranoid as hell, which meant Noriega was going to be there alone. It might have been a trap, sure, but I’d been sitting on my ass waiting for him to magically drop dead for so long that if there was even a chance it was on the level, I had to take it.

Turns out it was true, and went off smoother than I could have hoped for. I found the warehouse a few hours before the meet, and staked out a good spot. Then I waited. Salesa turned up first, a big Samoan guy with close-cropped hair, flanked by four men in dark suits, who carried a square wooden crate between them. They went into the warehouse, and sure enough five minutes later there he is, that snake. He was alone, and seemed to be limping slightly. He headed inside through the same door, leaving it unlocked. Perfect. There was no point me going in yet. I wasn’t keen to get my head kicked in by Salesa’s goons, so I just watched, my hand gripping the hilt of the combat knife I’d bought at an army surplus store I know is happy to sell off-the-books.

It was almost an hour later that Salesa and his men left, still carrying that box. They didn’t look happy, but I could have given a damn. As soon as they were round the corner I headed inside, as quietly as I could, and there he was, leaning up against a pile bricks, smoking. I started to move towards him, but as I got near he must have heard me, and turned around. He started to say something about reconsidering, and lowering the price, when he realised I was not Salesa. Then a look passed over the face of Paul Noriega that I will treasure forever. No matter what happens to me, the memory of that look of panicked terror will stay with me.

He turned to run, but whatever was wrong with his leg meant he tripped over the bricks instead. I grabbed him by the collar, my knife already out, and dragged him up. I had always been the stronger of the two of us, and he knew he couldn’t fight me. Holding up his hand, he begged me to wait, to listen. I noticed that his hand was missing a couple of fingers, old wounds that had long healed over, though I didn’t remember seeing them before. It didn’t matter; I could hear the blood pumping in my head and nothing was going to stop me taking my revenge. He begged for mercy, as I plunged the knife into him once, twice, three times. Again and again and again I stabbed that backstabber until, finally, I him let him fall. He landed on the floor hard, dead weight, his head making a thick, cracking sound as it hit the bricks, and blood began to pool on the floor around his body.

As the rage started to fade and my breathing returned to normal, I took a second to look over poor dead Paul Noriega, and saw something seemed to have been knocked loose when his head hit the bricks. Picking it up, I saw it was a glass eye. I looked back at the corpse, and sure enough there was a gaping hole where his left eye should have been. When had that happened? He certainly had both eyes when we had worked together and all ten fingers as well. He’d also had all his teeth, where now I saw gaps all over that dead, smiling face. I shivered, though I don’t know why.

I won’t go into detail about how I went about disposing of the body. Just trust me when I say that even if the cops did find any piece of Noriega’s corpse, they wouldn’t be able to pin it on me. And life went on. His boys did come looking for me when their boss didn’t return, but I knew to lay low for a while, and soon enough they realised that if he was gone, they weren’t getting paid either way and moved on. And so I had my revenge, and that should have been the end of the story. But it wasn’t.

It was five days after I killed Noriega that I found the first package. I was on Tottenham Marshes, near the reservoir, on business you don’t need to know, and I came to a metal bridge over one of the streams there. Now, this wasn’t a place I went often, and I don’t think I’d ever crossed that bridge before in my life, but there, lying in the centre of it, was a small box. It was wrapped in brown paper and string, like an old-fashioned Christmas present, and had my name printed on it in clear letters: LEE RENTOUL, FOR IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION.

Obviously, I was a little bit freaked out at this, but not as freaked out as when I opened it. Inside, lying was a black cardboard box, full of cotton wool and a single severed finger. It was obviously some sort of threat; some punk reckoned they could put a scare on me. No chance. I threw the finger into one of the canals and set the box on fire before throwing it in a bin. I headed home quickly, keeping my attention all around me and my hand on my knife. I was so busy looking behind me, I didn’t see the hole in front of me, and I tripped. As I fell forward, I felt a hot pain in the hand that had been on my knife. You guessed it. Falling had caused the blade to slice clean through my little finger.

I’m not too proud to admit that I screamed at this. I tore up my shirt, trying to make a bandage to stop the bleeding, at least until I could get to a hospital. But as I began to wrap it up, I noticed that it wasn’t actually bleeding. The wound was closed. It had healed, like it had happened years ago. I didn’t know what to think. I didn’t know what to do. So I just went home. I wasn’t getting my finger back, so I figured I could try to deal with it after a decent night’s sleep.

There was another box at my flat. Same as before. This one contained two toes. I tried to ignore it and keep my foot well away from any knives, but… I was trying to adjust the settings on my flatscreen when it fell off the wall. Hit my right foot and, well, have you figured it out yet? That was two weeks ago. Since then, I lost four more fingers to accidents, most of my toes, this eye I managed to put out on a goddamn fencepost. I’ve lost count of the number of teeth gone, and believe me when I say that you don’t want to know how I lost the hand. Each time, a box wrapped in brown paper: LEE RENTOUL, FOR IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION.

I’ve tried everything. Once I thought I managed to outsmart it. Spent the day in my bedroom - nothing sharp, no edges. I’d taken out everything except the mattress. It didn’t matter, I woke the next morning with an agony in my foot far sharper than any knife could cut, and the big toe missing, just like the one I’d received the morning before.

I knew it was Angela. Of course I did, I’m not thick. Whatever curse she’d laid on Noriega must have passed to me. I went over there, you know. Went to confront that old… and you know what happened? She let me in. She was, nice, civil. Offered me another cup of coffee! I told her where to stick it. Demanded, asked, begged her to stop whatever was happening to me. You know what she did? She shrugged. She just shrugged! Told me that “Some hungers are too strong to be denied”, whatever the hell that means. So I went for her. I was going to strangle the life out of that curse-flinging bag of bones. But as I reached for her, I… I don’t know. I don’t know what happened. I know that that’s how I lost the hand. I know I chewed it off.

Look, it doesn’t matter. I just need your help. I need this to stop. I don’t know how, but this is your area, right? This is what you do. You look into this weird ghost crap, right? Well this is the definition of weird ghost crap, and I need you to help me. I need you to save me from whatever is happening.

I don’t have much time. I got a box this morning, a few hours before I came here. It was a tongue.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

It doesn’t look like this case was ever properly followed up. According to the supplementary notes, shortly after making his statement, Mr. Rentoul became violent towards Institute staff and in the ensuing incident there was… an accident. No details are given, but it apparently required Mr. Rentoul’s hospitalisation. I’m reminded of a somewhat tasteless joke about loose tongues. He did not return to the Institute afterwards, and his statement was archived.

According to the arrest records Sasha uncovered, Mr. Rentoul was telling the truth about the somewhat chequered past of himself and his associate Paul Noriega, with extensive files on both of them. The last listed interaction between the police and Mr. Noriega is two months before Mr. Rentoul’s statement, and since then no sign can be found of him in police records, or indeed anywhere else.

I sent Martin to look into this ‘Angela’ character - not that I want him to get chopped up, of course, but someone had to. Apparently, he spent three days looking into every woman named Angela in Bexley over the age of 50. He could not find anyone that matches the admittedly vague description given here, though he informs me that he had some very pleasant chats about jigsaws. Useless ass.

Tim has done his best to try and hunt down Mr. Rentoul and see if we can contact him for a follow-up interview or evaluation, but it looks like he disappeared shortly after making this statement. We were able to find his old landlord, though, who said that Mr. Rentoul vanished in early April of 2011, leaving many unpaid bills and no forwarding address. He said that when he had gone to clear out the flat, he had been surprised to find there was no furniture left. All that remained in the house, he said, were hundreds and hundreds of small cardboard boxes.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Laura Popham, regarding her experience exploring the Three Counties System of caves with her sister Alena Sanderson. Original statement given November the 9th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Caving has always been one of my hobbies. My main hobby really - all the equipment can get quite costly after a while, and I don’t earn enough to have more than one expensive activity like that in my life. Alena, my sister, came along with me on a trip a few years back. She’d lost her job and her house in quick succession, and was staying with me. I thought it would cheer her up. It did, and we’ve been doing it ever since. Stupid idea, really. I wish I’d left her crying on the sofa. At least then she’d still be alive.

We didn’t really have the money to actually go potholing all that often, so I spent a lot of time reading and planning and just looking at stuff online. We averaged maybe a cave a year. Alena was never quite as into it as I was, though. Don’t get me wrong, she was no claustrophobe and I wasn’t forcing her to follow me into the darkness on threat of a family rift, but she mainly enjoyed the climbing, and I always ended up going a little bit deeper than she wanted.

I think, to be honest, she would have preferred to get her exercise under the open sky or, failing that, in an above-ground gym. Maybe we should have tried cliffs or a climbing wall, but caving was our thing. It had helped her when she was in a bad place, and she knew how much I loved it. She also wasn’t too keen on the scrapes and bruises you always get on expeditions. She used to joke that it felt like the earth itself was trying to kick her ass. If only she had known. We did have fun, though, and she always chose to come along. I never forced her to be there. I never did that.

We’d done some of the Three Counties cave system before - a short trip of only a couple of hours into the Rift Pot caves. The whole system is huge, though - I mean, there’s a reason it’s called the Three Counties System - so there was plenty more to explore, and we’d had so much fun the first time that I wanted to try it from a different angle. We were going to go in through the Death’s Head Hole, then travelling through Lost John’s Cave as far as Gavel Pot before heading back. The prospect of this excited me, as in order to travel between Lost John’s Cave and the Gavel Pot system we were going to have to do some cave diving. I had never done cave diving before, and neither had Alena, although she told me that the prospect spooked her less than some of the squeezes we’d had to do get there.

We made all the arrangements, got our permits in order with the CNCC and had my husband Alistair note down all the details in case anything went wrong. You never go caving unless someone knows where you’re headed and what your plan is. I had also done as much research into our route as possible, as I had no intention of straying from the well-explored, thoroughly-charted caves. I was never much of a pioneer, if I’m being honest, and I was happy to stay to the main routes. No, what I used to love about caving was the feeling of being deep inside the earth; the cold, solid walls folding in around me. It always used to feel like they were keeping me safe, though it doesn’t feel like that anymore.

It was Saturday, June 14th we went. I had taken the Friday before off work to prepare, and was planning to spend Sunday nursing well-earned bruises. Alena and I drove up to Lancashire, towards Death’s Head Hole. I live in Manchester so it wasn’t too long a trip. We parked up at Leck Fell, the closest you could legally park. I was surprised to see that we were the only ones there when we arrived. It was a sunny day in late spring and the weather was meant to be clear for days, with no chance of rain making the caves too dangerous. It was a perfect day for caving but it seemed we were the only ones taking advantage of it.

Death’s Head Hole is not nearly as impressive or intimidating as its name suggests. If you didn’t know what you were looking for, you might end up missing it entirely. When we went, much of it was covered in wild plants and bracken. It was barely larger than we were, and I remember at the time the phrase “a perfect fit” came into my head unbidden. Still, the resin anchors were in good condition, and we hooked up and descended our ropes without incident, despite a few unexpected twists in the pothole.

It was a bright day; it was almost noon when we went down, so the light filtered a lot further in that I would have expected. It was some time before we had to turn on our headlamps, but eventually we did so. By the time we hit the bottom, there was none of that sunshine left to be seen and the silent darkness of the cave swallowed us. Beneath our feet, the gentle waters of the underground stream ran their course, as they had for thousands of years, undisturbed by the rough tread of humanity, and we followed them. It was a much gentler descent than that which we had come in with, but it was very slippery, and I was glad I had invested in a waterproof map case, although it made it slightly harder to read at times.

Alena stood back to let me have my ritual. There was something I always did when I first entered a cave, and that was to take a moment to turn off all the lights, and place both my hands upon the cold, earthen walls. I remember once, when I was a child, we went on a school trip to White Scar Cave up in Yorkshire. It was a lovely, safe, accessible cave and was absolutely beautiful, which I suppose is why it was popular for such trips. After we’d been down there for a few minutes, the guide led us much deeper, and told us to stand very quietly. She turned off the lights, to show us children what true darkness is like. I’d never seen anything like it. It was such a pure black, so encompassing, and in the warmth of the underground I found myself full of a joy I’ve never forgotten. Even among a class of thirty schoolchildren, I felt like the only presence that mattered was the cave.

Ever since then, I would always take a moment on any potholing trip to do the same, and feel again that utter darkness, with no sound but the gently flowing river and my own breathing. I don’t think it’s an uncommon practice, actually, but I rarely went caving with anyone other than Alena, and, while she indulged me, I don’t think she really got anything out of it.

We turned our lights back on, and began to head deeper into the cave. I had a map, which we began to follow as closely as we could. I’m quite experienced in these things, but even I find it hard sometimes to match the irregular lines and angles of the underground passages to the often abstract shapes written into the map. There were several junctions that were significantly smaller than the map would seem to show, and the point of entry into Lost John’s Cave was what we would call a squeeze. It wasn’t on the map, but it seemed to be the only way through.

Now, most passages you find yourself travelling through when caving are much smaller than would normally be comfortable for people to move through. After all, they were eroded by often tiny streams of water and minor tectonic events, so accommodating humans was never high on their list of priorities.

A squeeze is something different, though. A squeeze can be a hole less than a foot wide, sometimes going on for a long way, the rock pressing in on all sides of you, and your helmet banging whenever you try to turn your head. In a particularly bad squeeze, there are parts where the walls and ceiling are so close that you can’t move your arms or bend your legs to push forward, and you just have to squirm your way to the other side like a worm. This was a particularly bad squeeze. Near the end, it got so bad that, if Alena hadn’t gone in first, I would have told her to go back and forget Lost John’s Cave.

About half way through, I realised that it was far tighter than I had imagined. I called ahead, to make sure Alena had made it out okay. She called back, told me it was a hard one, but she was fine. I wanted to answer her, but by that point the rock was so close around me it was stopping me from doing anything but holding my breath and willing myself forward.

A hand grasped me firmly on the shoulder and pulled me through. Just like that, I was out. Alena gave me a smirk, as if to comment on the fact that she had made it through unassisted, and I, the true cave aficionado, had need a hand. I wanted to shoot back some pointed comment about her being more slender than me, but by the time I had got my breathing under control again, the anger had died down and I managed a weak smile.

We made our way through the cave until we came to the Cathedral. It’s a large, arching cave - quite breathtaking, though it requires a couple of sheer drops to access, one of about 40 feet. We had experience and equipment enough to make quite light work of it, though, and soon we were beneath the Cathedral, in what is imaginatively called the Crypt. We stopped here for a rest and a bite to eat, and Alena told me an interesting thing about Lost John’s Cave. While I had been concerned with finding maps and as much information as I could on getting through, she told me she had been looking into a history of the place.

She said everyone puts the apostrophe in the wrong place, when talking about Lost John’s Cave. As the stories go, it was two men, both named John, who were the first to delve deep into the cave. They went too far, though, and their candles had gone out. They lost their way together in the sprawling labyrinth of tunnels, and never emerged. Alena said she thought it was quite sweet, in a strange sort of way, and joked that if she ever got trapped underground, she’d want it to be with me.

I smiled and nodded, though secretly, the thought appalled me. It wasn’t at the thought of being entombed down there - at the time, it didn’t seem like such an awful fate - but the thought of having to spend my last days with Alena was a bit too much. I’m sorry, that’s a horrible thing to say about the dead. I loved my sister, and I loved spending time with her, but to be lost beneath the earth is such an intensely private thing. Maybe she realised that, at the end.

After our brief stop we made our way down through the Dome. It was beautiful, and this was the part that I had been dreading, as all the experienced cavers I had talked to had said that this was the hardest descent. It went easily. Very easily, actually, and at the time I remember getting a weird feeling, like I was being swallowed. Finally, we made it through the shale cavern and into the master cave. As we stood there, I felt anticipation and trepidation in equal measure. Before us lay the passage, filled with the still water of the sump. We were about to have our first cave dive.

I had always been told by experienced cave divers that you never judge the distance correctly. The first few times you try to surface, you will always hit your head on the stone above, so it’s best to try and not be too alarmed by it. I reminded Alena of this as we got our equipment ready, and she told me she remembered, and then surprised me by asking to be the first one to go through, saying something or other about conquering fears. I said yes, why not, and let her go through.

As I stood there alone, waiting, I began to feel something I had never before felt this far underground. I began to feel uneasy. It was as silent as it had ever been, but there was something else there, beneath the silence. Almost like a whisper.

I shook the feeling off when it came time to follow Alena, and dived into the pool. It wasn’t far to the junction which would lead us on to the Gavel Pot. I pressed myself through the narrow space, half swimming, half climbing, until I thought I had gone far enough, and attempted to surface. Clunk. My helmet hit lightly against the roof of the tunnel. Fine, that was as expected. I kept swimming another few meters and tried again. Clunk.

That gave me a nasty shock, as I should have been well past the end of this first tunnel. I kept going, until I reached the end of the subterranean waterway, and went towards the surface. Clunk. I started to panic. Was this a dead end? There was no further I could go. Where was Alena? She couldn’t have come back past me; the tunnel was far too narrow. In desperation I tried to come up one more time.

I broke the surface to see Alena laughing to herself, and holding a rock over the part of the water where I had been trying to emerge. I swore at her violently, not sure whether to hit her or join in her laughing. She apologised, but said she had seen the rock and couldn’t resist, as I was always going on about the helmet banging on the roof. I sat there, suddenly drained. The adrenaline of my panic seemed to have sapped much of my energy, and I think my sister could see that, as she didn’t press me to go on. We both knew that the passage through from this junction to the Gavel Pot itself was a much longer dive, and neither of us was really up to it. We just sat there for a while in silence.

It had taken longer to get this far than we had planned, so I suggested going back the way we came, rather than continuing to go deeper into the cave. Alena agreed but, as I turned away, she asked me how lost I was in a low, grating voice. I snapped back that we weren’t lost at all, that I’d followed the map exactly, and she just gave me this look, like she didn’t understand what I was talking about. I shrugged, and told her that I would go first on the way back, and she agreed. I was eager to get back and be above ground in a way that I had never been before. I got my equipment ready and dived back into the water, heading back towards Death’s Head Hole.

That’s when everything started to go really, really wrong.

To begin with, the water didn’t end. I tried to surface, as I had on my first time through, and again there was that clunk as my helmet hit the roof of the tunnel. I moved on and tried again, but still no luck. I began to fight down the rising alarm, told myself that the tunnel had a definite end and I just had to reach it, but it just kept going. No light, no surface, nothing but this cramped waterway, pressing on every side waiting to claim me. I don’t know how long I was desperately swimming forward, but I almost screamed with relief when I reached my hand and felt it break the surface of the water.

It wasn’t the cave I expected. What stretched before me was a tunnel even smaller than the waterlogged one I had left. I scrambled forward into it, not because I wanted to go on into that unknown passage, but because I was worried about Alena being able to get out of the water behind me. I must have taken a wrong turn, except that didn’t make sense. I hadn’t turned at all, and more than that, there weren’t any turns or junctions in this part of the cave. I had checked all the maps of this area over and over, and they all put it as a straight line. I waited, wanting to talk to my sister when she surfaced, and discuss where to go from here. She didn’t emerge. I don’t know how long I lay there; it was too cramped to check the time, but it felt like hours. I wanted to go back and check, but I couldn’t even turn around to see. I just waited for a splash that never came.

I decided to go on, press forward until I at least found somewhere wide enough that I could turn. As crawled on, I scraped against the jagged rocks until I felt them pressing into my bare skin where my clothes had ripped. I can deal with it when I’m out, I kept thinking, but the passage just got smaller and smaller, until at last I couldn’t move any further. I finally accepted that I was going to have to try and squeeze back the way I had come without even turning round. I started to shuffle backwards, and my feet touched against solid rock. The tunnel was gone. It was then that I screamed. And my light went out.

I said earlier that I enjoyed the pure dark of the cave. I was wrong. I had never truly known a darkness like this. Unable to move, barely with breathing space enough to cry for help. Even as I lay there it felt as though the walls pressed me further, and I knew that the stone I had always believed to be my friend and protector was going to entomb me here.

In the distance, I saw the faintest point of light. It looked like a candle flame, far down the tunnel, so weak that it lit nothing but itself. It grew closer, but any hope it might have given me quickly died as it grew. It was coming towards me so slowly, and deep down I knew that it was… of this place. It meant me harm.

As it got closer, I saw the pale hand that held it, and I heard something. It was Alena. It sounded far off and muffled, but I was sure she was calling for help. I shut my eyes, for all the good it did in that place, and tried desperately to will it all away. When I opened my eyes again, the light was still there, but it had changed somehow. It seemed brighter and, as I looked, I realised it was no longer coming from a candle. I could hardly believe it, but it looked like daylight.

With every last ounce of strength I possessed, I pushed myself forward. Had I been climbing this whole time? My clothes were ragged and torn, my skin scraped and bloody, but after nearly an hour I broke onto the surface through a small opening not on any of the maps. I breathed in fresh, cool air, and I screamed as long and loud as I could. That was how Alistair and the cave rescue team found me. Apparently I’d been underground for almost twenty-four hours, and he had called in the cave rescue service.

I was well cared for, as I waited for news of Alena. My wounds were treated and I was given food and water. It took another day before the rescue team told me what I think I already knew: there was no sign of her anywhere. I never saw her again, and she was added to the list of fatalities, so I suppose that’s an end of it. I haven’t been underground since, and I don’t intend to.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

This is a strange one. I have rarely come across a statement written with such conviction, yet where so many of the details are provably false. The CNCC have no record of Ms. Popham getting a permit for this expedition, and the number of other permits they issued for June 14th would indicate that they certainly weren’t the only ones in the cave that day. Beyond that, Death’s Head Hole and Lost John’s Cave are, as Ms. Popham pointed out, well-documented in layout, and according to Sasha’s reckoning, the route she described is borderline nonsensical.

What is true is that on 15th of June, the Yorkshire Dales Cave Rescue Organisation was contacted by Mr. Alistair Popham, who told them his wife and sister-in-law had gone caving the day before, and had not returned. I sent Tim to check the details - Martin declined to help with this investigation as he’s “a bit claustrophobic” - and he found some more bizarre discrepancies.

Ms. Popham was not found aboveground, as she claimed. She was found a few yards from the bottom of Death’s Head Hole, unresponsive and kneeling next to a small pile of burned out candles. Alistair Popham claims not to have seen any such things being packed. She only came out of this stupor when brought above ground, at which point she started shouting about her sister Alena, demanding they go and “save her”.

There is also the matter of the recording. She does not mention it in her statement at all, but Ms. Popham took a camera with her into the cave system. It was never claimed back from the CRO after her rescue, and Tim managed to gain enough access to copy the footage. Best not to ask how, I think.

Most of it is mundane footage of Ms. Popham and her sister cave climbing, which seemed to match her statement, but the last recording is… somewhat alarming. The timestamp puts it at just past two o’clock in the morning of June 15th. It is completely black, though whether this is because it was in a pitch dark cave or simply because the lens cap was still on is unclear. The audio is what concerns me, and here I will play a sample:

[CLICK]
[SOUND OF UNDERGROUND WATERY MOVEMENT AND THE INCREASINGLY PANICKED VOICE OF LAURA POPHAM SAYING “TAKE HER, NOT ME.”]
[CLICK]
The video is 2 hours and 43 minutes long, and the audio remains consistent throughout.

No sign of Alena Sanderson has been found in the two years since her disappearance, and I have made the decision not to follow up our findings with Ms. Popham.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Carlos Vittery, regarding his arachnophobia and its manifestations. Original statement given April 9th, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I hate spiders. I know, I know, everyone hates spiders. Any time there’s any list of the top however many fears, they’re always up there, and whole horror franchises have been built on the basic premise that people hate spiders. But not like me. Not like this. It’s not the sight of a spider that gets me, not the legs or the eyes or even the webs they leave behind with only the drained corpse of their insect victims still inside. It’s the presence of a spider. The knowledge of its being, somewhere near, waiting to crawl on you, and all the warning you get that gentle tickle of its legs as it climbs upon you.

I’m not explaining myself very well. Let me try and phrase it in a different way: I can watch any number of films about the things. Documentary or horror, it doesn’t matter. I can read books on them. I can stare at close-up pictures of their weird spider faces all day long, and there’s hardly a shudder from me. But I had to move from my last house after discovering how many spiders made a home in my garden. I walked out there one day with the intention of smoking a cigarette, sat on the rusty garden furniture that had come with the place, and looked up.

There it was - stretched between two large branches, silhouetted against the sky it sat. Objectively speaking, the thing was tiny, couldn’t have been more than half an inch leg-to-leg, but up there, suspended high above me, its body black against the slate grey sky, it filled me with a sickening dread. I leapt up, and started to head back inside, but as I did, my eyes flicked wildly around the rest of the garden, and everywhere they came to rest, I saw more lurking spiders, more webs. There were dozens that I could see, which meant there must be hundreds more I could not.

There was no way I could live there after that. How could I sleep, knowing how many crawling horrors moved and twitched and spun their filth just a wall away? I’m not a fool; I know that all gardens contain spiders. Every single one is filled with them, nestled in any crevice or hiding spot they can find. But now I knew. I had seen them in their spindly multitudes, and I could not unknow how many were there. And I could not stop thinking of when winter would come, and they would seek to find a way into the warmth of my home. So I had to move.

Renting in London moves very quickly, which is a pain if you’re looking to find exactly the right place to live, but if you just need to get out and into a place as far away from a garden as possible and you aren’t choosy, it can be sorted out very fast indeed. I found a place in Boothby Road in Archway. While nearby Elthorne Road was full of houses and gardens - no doubt infested with spiders - my building was surrounded by concrete driveways and parking spaces, and the only vegetation were a few window boxes the other residents kept. The place was old, but had been kept clean enough that I didn’t need to worry about hidden webs, and the rooms, though small, were open enough that I could keep an eye on all corners. I was on the second floor, so any eight-legged intruder would have something of a climb to access it; although I was acutely aware of the distance a spider can shoot its web when it wants to get somewhere.

The building was also quite happy with pets, so I got a cat. I had heard from a friend who had a pair of them that they have a habit of catching spiders and eating them - slowly and torturously. This sounded good to me, so I invested in an older tabby, from a local shelter called Major Tom.

This is all a lot of superfluous information, I know, but you have to understand the lengths I went to; how little I would tolerate a spider to live in my presence, to fully grasp how unnatural it was, what happened to me. What still is happening to me.

I saw a spider about three months ago. Not unusual. Certainly not as unusual as I would like - even with all my precautions they still manage to get into my home once a month or so. My normal course of action is to immediately flee the room and leave Major Tom inside to deal with it, returning after a few hours. In all previous cases this had worked fine - I believe Major Tom definitely ate the majority of them, and those spiders that had simply fled back into the shadows, well, I can trick myself into believing they also suffered such a fate. It may be that my grey feline companion never actually ate any of them, but he was a fine enough placebo that such a thought didn’t concern me as much as it might.

I remember that month there had been a few of them. Our building had acquired something of an infestation of some sort of insect I didn’t recognise - small, silvery worms, almost like maggots, but slightly longer - and I assume that they provided a good meal for the eight-legged little monsters.

This spider was different. I felt it the moment I laid eyes on the thing, standing in the middle of kitchen wall, displaying itself boldly, as though it wanted to be as visible as possible. I felt that familiar rushing fear, as though the floor had dropped away and a thousand tiny legs are crawling upon every inch of my skin. But there was something else there. I was aware of this spider in a way I had never had been of others that preceded it. It wasn’t the biggest, maybe an inch wide, but its abdomen was swelled grotesquely. I could feel every one of its void-black eyes focused upon me, see each hair on its fat, bulbous body, and smell the venom I knew dripped from its fangs. I hate spiders, as I have said, but I would have sworn that this one hated me back.

None of this was enough to make me think twice about gingerly pushing Major Tom towards the thing with my foot and fleeing the room. I made my way into the living room and closed the door behind me, leaving cat and spider to deal with each other. I sat there, watching the TV, some panel show re-run, trying not to think about the thing on my kitchen wall. An hour passed, then two, and finally I felt like I had enough stability of mind to open the door and confirm that the damned arachnid was gone.

The moment I opened the door I felt something furry brush against my leg. Choking down a sudden moment of panic, I looked and, sure enough, there was Major Tom, hurrying out of the room at a run. He didn’t seem hurt or upset, so I assumed his job was done. Then I turned back to my kitchen, and froze. The spider sat in that same spot. It wasn’t eaten, it hadn’t fled, from what I could tell it hadn’t even moved! The only way I was sure the thing was real and alive was that I swear to you I could see its mandibles twitching with anticipation. I stood there, unable to summon the will to close the kitchen door or enter into it fully and cursed Major Tom for a useless bag of fur.

It was another hour before I was finally able to move. The whole time I stood motionless in the doorway, watching the fat spider that paraded itself on my wall. Still it remained in place, and I couldn’t help but feel that it was daring me to do something, to take action, to kill it. I began to move. Slowly, ever so slowly, I approached it, reaching a hand over the table and taking the half-drunk mug of coffee, now long cold, in my hand. I gripped the handle so tight I was sure it would snap off in my fingers. Finally, I stood before the spider, preparing myself to calmly crush it against the wall. Then it moved without warning and I hurled the mug against the wall with all my might.

It hit the spider dead on and exploded in a shower of coffee and china. I stood there for a minute, breathing hard, but all that remained was a large stain on the wall and mug shards littering the floor. I should have cleaned it up immediately, but I was so tired, as though killing the spider had taken every ounce of wakefulness that I had within me. I simply turned around and went to bed. My dreams that night were many-legged but there’s not much unusual in that.

I spent the next morning cleaning up the detritus from my battle with the spider. I wished that I had gotten the coffee cleaned before it had dried, but by lunchtime the place was looking very much as it had before. As I swept up the smashed mug, I noticed that the largest shard, emblazoned with the design of a stylized blue owl, had a vivid smear on it. Brown, red and green were crushed onto it where it had hit the spider. It disgusted me, but looking at it I couldn’t help but feel a small surge of triumph, and I smiled as I threw it into the garbage bag. Major Tom watched, impassive as always.

The next few days passed without incident. Major Tom had never been much of an indoor cat, so I had installed a cat flap some time before to allow him to come and go as he pleased. After that first encounter he seemed to spend more time outside, and I saw him less and less as the week progressed. I didn’t think much of it; we’d had a particularly mild Christmas, so it made sense that he’d be enjoying the outside as much as possible before winter really set in.

It was the Friday after my first encounter that it happened. I came in from work, tired after a difficult week - I used to work as a data analyst at an online betting company - and decided to order takeout and relax in front of some TV. I eased myself back into my armchair and reached for the remote. I was aware that Major Tom wasn’t anywhere to be seen, which was odd, since he usually got fed shortly after I arrived home, and he was never one to miss a meal.

Still, I didn’t think of it, and turned on the television. I hadn’t turned the satellite box, so what showed at first was an empty blue screen. I reached to the other remote to turn it on, when I realised the blue screen wasn’t empty. There, sat upon it, black against the glowing background, was a spider. And not just any spider, but I swear to you, and here’s where you march me out of your little institute as a time-wasting lunatic, but I swear that it was the same damn spider.

It was the same size, the same shape, the same thick, pulsing abdomen. But more than that, I felt it. I felt it in that fear that hit me like I had been punched in the stomach, and I felt it in the way that the thing just sat there, unmoving, waiting for me to kill it again. I was stuck to my chair, just watching this spider as it stood there on the screen of my television. I called for Major Tom, but there was no response.

God knows how long I sat staring at the spider on my television. I don’t wear a watch, and I couldn’t move my arm to check my phone. If I hadn’t been sat down I would have run already, but standing up was more movement than I could bring myself to make while it watched me.

Finally, I got to my feet. It was less effort than I expected when I finally mustered the will to do it. Although that’s not really how it felt at the time - at that point it felt almost involuntary, as though some something were lifting me, hoisting me to my feet by unseen strings. I began to walk, but rather than fleeing the spider I found I moved towards it, until I stopped there, so close I could have touched it, though my mind recoils at the thought.

Before I realised exactly what I was doing, I lifted my leg, and kicked the television, instantly crushing the bulbous spider beneath the heel of my shoe, and, now I think about it, narrowly avoiding a nasty electrocution. I had had no inkling I was capable of such a thing, but once again the spider was dead, and I had a slimy stain on my shoe.

I threw the shattered remains of the television away, burned the shoe and tried, desperately, to return to something approaching my normal life, but it was no good. The spider that I had killed had come back, of that I had no doubt, and a deep paranoia began to set in as I waited for it to return again. I saw Major Tom only once in the weeks that followed. He came in, sniffed at the bowl of food I had continued to put out for him in the vain hope of luring him back, and turned around and walked away. As he left, he gave me a look that I could have sworn was one of pity.

I called in sick to my job, as I wasn’t really sleeping, and so much of the time was spent checking nooks and corners for the spider that I was a nervous wreck. More than once, I did find spiders, but they weren’t the one who was after me, so I killed them without a second thought. My life descended into the mess that it, well, it still remains today.

I was right, though. Two weeks after I kicked it to death on my TV, there it was. Over my bed. Standing on the wall, over the spot where my head lay each night as I tried in vain to sleep. It was that damned spider. And I recognised it. My bedroom is better lit than the kitchen, and it wasn’t silhouetted against a screen, so for the first time I got a really good look at my tormentor, and I realised that I had seen it before the kitchen.

I was not born with a fear of spiders. In fact, for the first six years of my life, I can only assume I existed in peaceful harmony with them. But that changed in the autumn of 1991. I didn’t live in London then, but with my parents in Southampton, and we would visit my grandparents every Sunday, out in the nearby New Forest. They lived on the edge of a suburb, and from the bottom of my grandmother’s garden you could see fields stretching away for a half a mile to the tree line. I used to spend a lot of time down there, and if you were lucky, sometimes there would be horses.

That day, there were no horses, just an overcast sky and wind that threatened to blow off my blue woollen hat. I was wandering through the scattered trees by the fence I wasn’t allowed to cross, and I noticed a fallen log. I had seen it before, of course, as there was little in that place that changed much between my weekly visits, but there was something different about it. In one of the hollows sat something that I did not recognise. It was a pale brown, and looked soft and lumpy, like a small sack. Knowing no better, I approached it, and saw, perched on its top, a small spider. It watched me, warily, its fat abdomen twitching, but it did not move.

In my childish ignorance, I thought it looked silly, and I reached over for it. But I tripped. My hand hit the spider, killing it instantly, and plunging into the egg sack below, causing it to tear open and explode. I was suddenly covered in thousands of small, white crawling things, those tiny, dripping, half-formed and unfinished spiders. They covered my hands, my face… my eyes.

I can never forget that feeling, and since then, the presence of spiders has filled me with the deepest dread. And that was the spider that sat before me on my bedroom wall. Though I remembered little of what the long-dead thing had looked like, I knew it was the same. Can you be haunted by the ghost of a spider that destroyed your childhood?

It sounds absurd. It sounds laughable. But there it was. I didn’t know why it was here. And I didn’t know why I was reaching for it. My mind screamed to stop, and I let out a terrible cry, but my hand kept moving towards it inexorably, as though willed by something else. This ghost spider felt real enough when I crushed it beneath my palm, legs splayed and body bursting warmly against my skin. Once I had control of my limb once again, I spent the rest of the night washing my hand.

I am moving out of that building. I officially gave Major Tom’s paperwork to the family on the ground floor he decided to move in with, and will be leaving the moment I find somewhere, anywhere, available for immediate rental. I can’t risk seeing the thing again. I’m also seeing doctors, trying to get a referral for psychiatric treatment or possibly some antipsychotic medication, but I felt I should probably give you a statement as well. I don’t expect you to believe me, but if “ghost spiders” falls under anyone’s remit, I suppose it’s yours.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I think the most important lines in this statement come at the very end. Antipsychotic medication and disbelief are, I think, exactly what Mr. Vittery needed to get through his problem with, er, “ghost spiders”. There simply aren’t enough details given in this statement to actually investigate, short of Martin confirming that Mr. Vittery did indeed live at the addresses he provided.

I would have asked Tim to follow up with Mr. Vittery himself, but he appears to have passed away shortly after giving his statement. He was found in his Boothby Road residence, after neighbours complained of the smell, and had apparently been dead for over a week. Coroner’s report lists asphyxiation as the cause of death, probably due to choking, though it doesn’t say what he choked on, simply lists “foreign organic material” blocking his throat.

If I were of a more alarmist nature, I might think the appearance of Mr. Vittery’s corpse lent some credibility to his tale. But as I told Martin earlier, he was there for over a week, so there is very likely a perfectly natural explanation for the fact that his body was completely encased in web.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sebastian Adekoya, regarding a new acquisition at Chiswick Library. Original statement given June 10th, 1999. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Books are amazing, aren’t they? I mean, when you think about what they really are. People don’t give the actuality of language the weight it deserves, I feel. Words are a way of taking your thoughts, the very make-up of yourself, and giving them to another. Putting your thoughts in the mind of someone else. They are not a perfect method, of course, as there’s plenty of scope for mutation and corruption between your mind and that of the listener, but that doesn’t change the essence of what language is.

Spoken aloud, though, the thought dies quickly if not picked up. Simple vibrations that vanish almost as soon as they are created, though if they find a host, then they can lodge there, proliferate, and maybe spread further. Still, it is not a reliable method in terms of a thought’s endurance, as humans are fragile creatures, and rarely last a century.

A book, though, is another story. There are written texts that have outlived the civilisations that created them. Imagine, thoughts hundreds, thousands of years old, preserved and ready to be taken again. Corrupted, or translated, perhaps, by a culture that does not understand them, but still, ideas that have outlived by lifetimes the mind that first conceived them.

Will the thoughts that first ran through Shakespeare’s head ever stop being thought by someone, somewhere? And a book, so dense with a mind’s fossilised creations, is it any wonder they have been ascribed such power throughout the ages? Or that an old library, with heavy tomes covering every wall, seems to have such a weight to it, beyond the physical presence of the texts it holds?

I used to work at Chiswick Library. I didn’t have such ideas back then, though. I just knew I loved books, always had, and so when the opportunity arose to work in my local library I jumped at the chance. I had been a voracious reader ever since I was old enough to hold a book for myself, and even before that my mother tells me I would pester her constantly to read to me. I suppose you might say my mind has always been receptive to the thoughts that lurk in the written page.

Still, Chiswick Library is a long way from the cramped and austere libraries you’re probably imagining. It’s light and airy, with bookshelves and carpets that speak more of cash-strapped local councils than of the rich majesty of knowledge. It has an extensive children’s section and the vast majority of its stock are dog-eared paperbacks of true crime, literary fiction and reference books. It has a modest collection of books on tape and the atmosphere, though quiet, is far from oppressive. In a word, I would sum the place up as ‘unthreatening’.

It was three years ago when this happened. I had already been working there for about a year when the book first turned up. Now, we used to buy all of our books new, and I never did any of the acquisitions for the library, so I couldn’t say when or where it might have been bought from, but it looked old and pretty beaten up when I first noticed it. It was handed back with four other books at the front desk, and as I was scanning them through, I noticed that one of the barcodes didn’t seem to match up. The barcode and ISBN both registered as being that of Trainspotting, by Irvine Welsh, but the book itself was an almost featureless black paperback, with a title on the front in a faded white serif font: The Boneturner’s Tale.

I was a bit confused, and called the librarian, Ruth Weaver, over to ask about it. She didn’t recall seeing it ever before, but stuck in the front was the ex-libris bookplate of Chiswick Library, as well as a lending label with a handful of stamps going back several years. Ruth shrugged and told me not to worry too much about it - we’d get it recorded and put on the system properly, but something about the situation bothered me, so I decided to check the record of the man who had returned it.

His name, at least according to his library card, was Michael Crew, and sure enough, three weeks ago he had borrowed four books from us. Specifically, the four others he had returned. I suggested to Ruth that perhaps he was a self-published author who was trying to trick his way onto our shelves, and she laughed, saying that was probably it, although why anyone would go to the trouble of faking it just to get on the shelves of Chiswick Library was beyond her. The book even looked worn, though, like it had seen decades of being read, with a line creased down the spine, and one half of the cover faded from the sun. Nor, from what I could see, did it list any author at all.

It was at that moment that Jared Hopworth came in, and I had to put the book to one side. Jared and I had once been fast friends; growing up on the same road, attending the same schools, we had spent much of our early life as inseparable. But he had always been, well, not to put too fine a point on it, thick as mud, and when I went away to university, he stayed behind. I think he saw it as something of a betrayal, and when I finally returned, I knew immediately something had changed between us. He spent the time I was away becoming a bit of a crook, and upon my return, began what would eventually become a campaign of petty terror. He was always very careful to stop before he did anything that might get the police involved, and I guess there was enough leftover affection from a childhood spent together that I never really thought about reporting him. It wa -

ARCHIVIST
Oh, erm, hello Elias.

ELIAS
Do you have a moment?

ARCHIVIST
Not really, I’m sort of in the middle of something.

ELIAS
I understand, it’s just that Miss Herne has lodged a complaint.

ARCHIVIST
A complaint? I could just as easily complain about her wasting my time!

ELIAS
That’s not how it works, Jonathan.

ARCHIVIST
I wouldn’t even have had to do the recording if Rosie kept her equipment in better condition.

ELIAS
Regardless, I would prefer that you not antagonise anyone connected to the Lukas family. They are patrons of the Institute, after all.

ARCHIVIST
Fine, fine, I’ll be more lovely. Now, can I get back to work?

ELIAS
Very well. By the way, have you seen Martin?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, he’s off sick this week. Stomach problems, I think.

[ELIAS LEAVES]
Blessed relief if you ask me.

Statement resumes.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It was worst when Jared visited the library, because that inevitably meant that he was bored enough to seek me out for harassment. Sure enough, he started chatting with me, meaningless jibes that served to wait it out until Ruth, who didn’t know about Jared’s problems with me, returned to her office and closed the door. As soon as she had done so, he turned, and, in a single movement, tipped over the metal returns cart, spilling the recently received books all over the floor. He smiled at me and apologised. I did my best not to show any irritation, or indeed any reaction at all as I slowly walked around and bent down to start collecting them. As I rose to my feet, I felt an impact on the back of my head, and staggered.

Behind me, Jared stood holding the book I had put aside, The Boneturner’s Tale, and had apparently picked it up to hit me with. But rather than offering me a fake apology, or further violence, instead his eyes were locked on the book. We stood there in silence for a few seconds, until he said something about needing something new to read, turned around, and walked off.

I was, I will admit, a bit unsettled. As far as I could recall I had never seen Jared read… well, anything, really. And the look in his eyes when he had left had something in it not entirely unlike fear. Still, it was a welcome relief to have him gone, and I quickly tidied up the rest of the books before Ruth noticed anything amiss.

There was nothing else I recall that happened that day at the library, but on the way home afterwards, I passed by Jared’s house. I had moved back in with my parents while I got everything sorted out after university, and he had never moved out of his childhood home, so we still lived on the same street. It was late September at this point, so by the time I had walked back from the library it was dark, and I noticed a small shape moving in the pool of orange light below the streetlamp.

As I got closer, I realised with a slight start that it was a rat, and not a dirty, wild rat but a large, white one, quite well-kept and clearly once a pet. But there was something very wrong with it. It was dragging itself slowly, pulling from the front legs, and I saw that the back half of it was flat, as though deflated somehow. I thought it must have been run over, but there was no blood or sign of crushing, nor did it seem to be in any actual pain. It just had a back half that flopped and twitched obscenely as it made its gradual way across the lighted pavement and out into the darkness. I just stood there and watched, transfixed by it, until it disappeared from view. Thinking about it now, I remember its head was turned at a strange angle, far further round than it should have been, although I might be getting confused. Many of these experiences run together when I look back on them. There was no light on in Jared’s house, but I hurried home quickly after that.

I didn’t see Jared again for some time. At first I was just happy for the space, but as the days turned into weeks I started to feel something I wouldn’t have expected to - worry. If it hadn’t been for the way he had left last time, it probably wouldn’t have bothered me, but he had looked so strange, and even without him coming to the library, it was rare I would go a week without seeing him. By now it had almost been a month. Still, I resisted the urge to go to his house and check. If it turned out he was fine, then I’d be inviting a whole world of unpleasantness, and besides that, I reminded myself, he wasn’t my problem anymore.

It was late October when Jared’s mother came in. It was near the end of the day, and outside was already dark. I was putting up a display about good Hallowe’en reads before heading home, when I heard the door open. I turned around and there she was. It took me a few seconds to recognise her, if I’m honest. I hadn’t seen much of her in the years since Jared and I had been close, and she had aged noticeably. Mrs. Hopworth wore a bulky overcoat, though it wasn’t that cold yet, and her arm hung down in a sling. Something about the angle of the arm and how it hung there seemed faintly abnormal, and I wondered if she had broken it.

When I asked Mrs. Hopworth if she was okay, she just stared at me, her eyes burning with hatred. With her good arm she reached into her coat and pulled out a small, black paperback. She threw it on the floor without saying a word and turned to leave. I couldn’t help myself, I asked her if Jared was alright. She spun back and started to swear violently at me, told me I had no business with her son and that I, and my books, were to stay away from him. As she spoke, I couldn’t look away from her arm and the odd ways it twisted as she gestured. How her fingers seemed to bend the wrong way. I was glad that Ruth had gone home early, as I didn’t want her to witness the disturbing confrontation I had now apparently caused.

When she had finished, Mrs. Hopworth spat towards me, though I noticed she was careful to avoid spitting at the book that now lay on the floor between us, and left. I put down the copy of Stephen King’s Misery that I now realised I’d been clutching, and approached the discarded volume that lay on the carpet. The battered black cover seemed the same as when I had first seen it weeks ago, with that faded white title on the front: The Boneturner’s Tale. I reached down to pick it up, but before I did so a thought flashed across my mind, a memory of the last time I had seen Jared, and I grabbed some tissues from the desk before using them to pick up the book. Even then I felt my skin crawl as I held it.

I decided not to deal with it that night. I wasn’t entirely sure that reading it in the daytime would be that much better, but shadows cast from outside seemed to have gotten that much starker since the book had been brought back into my library, and it scared me. I placed it in the book returns cart and left, double-checking I had firmly locked the door behind me.

It rained heavily that night. My room is in a converted attic, and when the weather is bad, it’s as if I can hear every raindrop against the window that is just above my bed. It wasn’t a storm, there wasn’t the wind for it, it was just that heavy pounding rain that drummed and beat on the glass above me. I couldn’t sleep. There was a nagging apprehension in my mind, something that after three hours lying in bed had turned into almost a panic. How could I have just left the book? There was something wrong with it, that much was obvious. What if Ruth came in earlier than I did tomorrow and took it? What would happen to her? Should I have destroyed it?

That last thought was quickly pushed away. I wasn’t sure I had it in me to destroy a book, even one with such a strangeness to it. It surprised me just how easily I accepted that The Boneturner’s Tale had dark powers, but I suppose I’ve always felt that books have a sort of magic to them, so it was really just a confirmation of what I had suspected, deep down, for a long time.

It was two in the morning when I decided that I couldn’t just leave it there overnight. I got up, dressed, and quietly headed out into the rain towards the library, making sure to take my gloves. My coat was supposed to be water resistant, but still managed to soak in the twenty minutes it took me to walk there. I had the key from locking up that night, and deactivated the alarm as I entered.

It was almost pitch black inside, and part of me wanted to keep it that way, but I turned on as many of the lights as I could without it being immediately obvious outside the building. It wasn’t many, and I still had to half-feel my way through the foyer and into the library proper. As I approached the desk, and the book returns cart where I had left The Boneturner’s Tale, I began to step less cautiously. It was darker in that corner of the library, and I put a hand out to steady myself against the handle of the small metal cart. I’d taken my gloves off at that point, and my hand came away wet. I quickly fumbled for the torch I had snatched before heading out and turned it on. Red dripped and pulsed from the cart, soaking the pages and forming a small pool around it. The books were bleeding.

I laughed at that. It seemed so appropriate somehow, so utterly correct that those neighbouring books should suffer, should be contaminated by it. Just as it seemed right and proper that, when my torch found The Boneturner’s Tale, it was dry, unmarked by the gory scene around it.

I put my gloves back on, and carefully took out that sinister volume and placed it on the desk. Perhaps I should have fought harder against the temptation to look inside, but my curiosity was too strong. The thick gloves made turning individual pages almost impossible, and I still had enough good sense to keep them on, so I just opened it on a few random pages and started reading. Perhaps I was being paranoid. After all, I touched the book with my bare hands when it was first given in to the library, and had no problems, but the image of Jared’s mother wouldn’t leave my head. How her arm had twisted when it moved. I decided to keep the gloves on.

It was written in prose, and certainly seemed to be a story of some kind. The part I read dealt with an unnamed man, at various points referred to as the Boneturner, the Bonesmith or just the Turner, watching an assembled group of people as they made their way into a small village. It’s unclear from what I read whether he is travelling with them, or simply following them, but I remember being unsettled by the details he observed in them: the way the parson would move his hand over his mouth whenever he stared too long at the nuns or how the cook looked at the meat he prepared with the same eyes that looked at the pardoner. It was only at that point that I realised the book was describing the pilgrims from The Canterbury Tales.

Now, this certainly wasn’t some lost section of a Chaucer classic. It was written in modern English, with none of the archaic spelling or pronunciation of the original, and besides that the writing itself was of questionable quality. There was something compelling about it, though. The debate about how finished The Canterbury Tales were… well, it’s a very real debate. In the Prologue, over a hundred tales are promised, but the most complete surviving version doesn’t even reach two dozen. The book just sort of ends, with Chaucer adding a short epilogue imploring God for forgiveness. A plea that is generally read as sarcastic or rhetorical.

I flicked ahead a few pages, and found the Bonesmith had apparently crept up to the Miller while he slept. It described him silently reaching inside him, and… it’s a bit hazy. All I remember clearly is the line “and from his rib a flute to play that merry tune of marrow took”. And as for the rest, I don’t recall in detail, but I know that I almost threw up, and that the Miller did not survive. This was on page sixteen, and it was a thick book.

I turned to the frontispiece, desperately curious as to how this book had ended up in our library. In the harsh light of the torch, I could see the creases and peeling edges of the Chiswick Library label, which usually meant it had been removed and re-stuck, or taken from another book entirely. I could even see the edges of another label underneath. Using a pair of scissors, I carefully peeled off the top one, but was disappointed. It was the label for another library, probably the last place it had been left, although I think it must have been in Scandinavia, because it was something like the library of Jergensburg or Jurgenleit or Jurgerlicht or something like that. It didn’t help me.

I was all set to return to reading the thing, when I heard the sound of breaking glass behind me. I turned around to see Jared Hopworth standing in front of the shattered window. Or at least, I assume it was Jared, as it demanded the book from me in Jared’s voice, but wore lose fitting trousers, and a thick coat with a hood that almost completely covered his face. Or its face.

He was longer than Jared had been, and stood at a strange angle, as though his legs were too stiff to use. When he gestured for the book, I saw that his fingers looked… sharp, as though the skin at the ends were being pushed into a tight point by something inside. I told him that the library was closed, because at that moment I could think of nothing else to say. He ignored me, and demanded again that I give him the book. That was when I did something a little rash, which is to say I punched him.

I had never really thrown a punch in anger before, or even desperation, so it came as quite a shock to me when I managed to drive a single, solid fist into his solar plexus. But as I did this, and this is the part that still gives me nightmares, I felt his flesh give way and almost retract, drawing me in close. And then I felt his ribs shift, shut tight around my hand, as though his ribcage were trying to bite me. They were sharper then I would have thought possible, and at last, this was what actually started me screaming. Never before or since have I ever screamed like that, and I’m still a bit surprised I’m capable of making such a noise, but there you have it.

In my panic I dropped the copy of The Boneturner’s Tale and, in less than a second, Jared was on it. He released my hand and grabbed it with a frantic desperation, before he turned to run back out the way he came in. I started to chase after him, until I saw how he was moving. How many limbs he had. He had… added some extras. That was the moment it finally all got too much for me; I stopped running. It wasn’t my book, it wasn’t my responsibility and I had no idea what I was dealing with, so I didn’t. I just stood there in a daze and watched the thing that was once Jared disappear out into the rain. I never saw him again.

The police turned up soon after. Someone had apparently heard my screams and called in a report. I spun some tale about falling asleep at my desk and being woken up by an attempted robbery. God knows how I explained the bloody books, because it wasn’t some disappearing phantom. It took weeks to get out. Everyone seemed to believe me, though, and miraculously I kept my job. I haven’t seen Jared in the years since, and I haven’t done any further research on the book. The best scenario I can possibly imagine is that this statement is the last I ever need to hear or speak about Jared Hopworth or The Boneturner’s Tale.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Well, this makes me… deeply unhappy. I’ve barely scratched the surface of the archives, and have already uncovered evidence of two separate surviving books from Jurgen Leitner’s library. Until he mentioned that, I was tempted to dismiss much of it out of hand, but as it stands now I believe every word. I’ve seen what Leitner’s work can do, and this news, even 17 years out of date, is still very concerning to me. I’m going to have a discussion with Elias as to what we can do to address the issue. I know he’ll just give me the old “record and study, not interfere or contain” speech again, but I at least need to make him aware of it.

Tim and Sasha have cross-referenced the events here with police reports, and sure enough, there was a warrant issued for the arrest of Jared Hopworth for breaking and entering, as well as assault. He was never found, though, and the crimes weren’t serious enough to keep the case active for very long. I’ve been doing as much research myself as possible, but the book seems to have vanished along with him.

I asked Martin to try and hunt down Mr. Adekoya himself for a follow-up, but have been informed that he passed away in 2006. He was found lying dead in the middle of the road on the night of April 17th. Despite the fact that there were no crushing or trauma marks on the body, the inquest ruled it a hit-and-run car accident, due to the mangled position in which he was found. It was a closed casket funeral.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Christof Rudenko, regarding his interactions with a first floor resident of Welbeck House, Wandsworth. Original statement given December 12th, 2008. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Never buy a ground floor flat. It may seem like a good idea, especially if, like me, you just spent a decade dragging shopping up three flights of stairs every week, but it’s noisier, always has a worse view, and is far more prone to break-ins and other… problems. And then there is the matter of upstairs neighbours. I know that higher floors will, more often than not, also have people living above you, and moving from living in a top floor flat to the ground floor like I did is not a common thing, but it’s still true. I never had any real concerns about it until I moved to the ground floor of Welbeck House. These days I keep a much closer eye on those I live near.

Welbeck House is a five-storey block of flats in Wandsworth town centre, a great area to live, actually. It’s close enough to London proper that you can commute in easily, and enough amenities that you don’t often need to, especially if, like me, you’re self-employed. It wasn’t cheap, but I’ve always been good with money, so when I decided to try and actually buy a place at age thirty four, I was able to afford a nice flat. After almost a year of searching, I settled on the ground floor at Welbeck. At the time, I hadn’t really given much thought to my neighbours - those I had encountered in the course of buying the place had seemed nice enough, and the previous owners of my flat hadn’t mentioned anything.

On the day I moved in - this would have been late 2002 - I saw a man smoking, leaning out of the window just above my own. It was a grey, overcast day and the forecast had said there would be rain later, so I was keen to move the last of my boxes inside and start unpacking, and didn’t really pay him much attention. I remember that he was wearing a hooded jacket, though, pulled up tight and obscuring most of his face. We locked eyes briefly - at least I assume we did - I couldn’t see his eyes but I felt him looking at me - and I could swear I smelled the weirdest odour. It’s hard to describe, halfway between the smell of a pavement after rain on a hot day and chicken that’s starting to turn. It was unpleasant, to say the least, but the wind changed, and it was gone as quickly as it came. The man in the upstairs window kept watching as I took my boxes inside, just continuing to smoke in silence, ‘til at one point I came outside to get the last bits, and noticed he was gone.

I was slightly spooked by the encounter. It’s hard to say exactly why, as aside from the smell, which could have come from anywhere, there was nothing outwardly upsetting about it, yet something in the man’s manner had shaken me. I didn’t even know at the time whether it was a man, that was just an assumption I made, but I certainly had no plans to check. I’m quite a private person, so the idea of going round and trying to meet my neighbours at all was not one that I gave a lot of consideration, let alone this one, who had spent the better part of half an hour staring at me. I decided to ignore the whole thing, and get on with the process of moving in.

I was very successful at ignoring the man upstairs, at least at first. It wasn’t difficult, as he was usually quiet and rarely came out of his flat as far as I could tell. In fact, as the time in my new home wore on I started to recognise the other residents of Welbeck House: the white family that lived across the hall, with their little girl - I sometimes heard her in the evening, loudly protesting her bedtime; the old spinster next door - Dianne, I think her name was, or Diana; the Asian guy on the first floor that worked nights and slammed the doors too much. I doubt I ever exchanged more than a dozen words with any of them but I began to know their sounds and their habits.

In all that time, though, I’m not sure I ever saw the man who lived above me. Not in the hallway, not out the window, it was like he didn’t exist, which was fine by me, except that I would still very occasionally catch a whiff of that smell. Rotten and earthy, it would catch me by surprise and I’d usually spend a minute trying to track it down before it vanished. Once, I swear that as I stopped to look around, I heard the door upstairs close quietly.

It seemed to me pretty obvious it was him. It wasn’t ideal, but his hygiene problem was nobody’s business but his own, and having figured out the source of the smell, it stopped bothering me quite so much, on those rare moments that I caught it in the air currents of our building. It didn’t enter my home, although I did take to lighting scented candles just in case - a habit I still keep up today. I decided all that was important to me was that he was quiet, which he was. At least, for the first couple of years.

The banging started on 5th July, 2004. I know because it was the day before my thirty-seventh birthday, and I was unpacking a crate of beer for the friends I had invited over. At first I assumed the man upstairs was just nailing something into the wall but after ten minutes it still hadn’t stopped. Instead, it just seemed to move. While at first it had sounded like something being nailed into his wall, the banging started to move downwards, until it seemed he was knocking things right into the floor. At one point he was hammering directly over the light, causing it to sway slightly with each blow.

This went on for almost an hour, and all I could do was try to ignore it, as there was nothing I wanted to do less than climb those stairs and knock on his door. Even so, by the time it finally finished I was on the verge of doing exactly that. It did stop, though, and after it became clear it wasn’t coming back any time soon, I tried to put it out of my mind and get back to my preparations.

Thankfully, there was no disturbance from upstairs during my small party the following night, just the family from across the hall at one point asking for the music to be turned down. In fact, I didn’t hear anything from him for another two weeks, when the banging started again. Again it was almost an hour of hammering, first into the walls, then moving down onto the floor, before stopping altogether.

I was not happy about this, as I’m sure you can imagine, but I was still reluctant to confront this nameless person who lived over me, so I let it slide. From that point on, every two weeks it came, the hammering, for an hour or thereabouts. I tried to find someone to complain to, but it seemed like whoever lived there owned the flat outright, so there was no landlord or housing association that I could report him to.

The final straw came about six months later; it was actually a very simple thing. I got a package delivered incorrectly to my flat. It was addressed to Mr. Toby Carlisle, and the flat number on it was not mine but that of my upstairs neighbour. The envelope was thick and soft, must have been mainly full of bubblewrap or other packing material. It wasn’t much, but it gave me another reason to go upstairs and, while delivering it, I could politely request that he stop his fortnightly hammering.

It was harder than I thought to walk up those stairs and I was surprised to find that my legs were shaking slightly as I reached the top. I got another whiff of that dank, rotten smell as I approached. The carpet immediately in front of the door was stained ever-so-slightly, a darker colour than it should have been, as though something had leaked out from underneath it. The wood was old and worn compared to the others in the building, which looked to have been replaced relatively recently. There was no number on it, or any indication that it was, in fact, Toby Carlisle who lived there. I knocked, trying to give the action a confidence that I frankly did not feel.

There was no answer, so I knocked again, louder this time, and I heard some movement from inside, gradually heading towards the door. The steps were muffled, like he was walking over thick carpet, until they stopped on the other side. There was no sound at all.

I waited for a minute, and was just about to knock again when the door opened, just a crack. There didn’t seem to be any lights on inside; it wasn’t open wide enough for me to get a good look or even see the man himself, but it was enough that I heard when a cracked, ragged voice spoke. It said, “What do you want?”

Through that crack I was hit by a sudden wave of that rancid air and reeled backwards, fighting back the urge to vomit. Through it, I just about managed to stammer out the question as to whether he was Toby Carlisle, that I’d had a delivery for him. There was silence for a second, then a hand shot out and grabbed the package I held, pulling it out of my grasp before I had a chance to fully realise what was happening. The hand was thin and pale, with long, filthy yellow fingernails. On the back I saw a single dark red mark, that might have been a cut or a lesion, but it was gone before I had a chance to see it in more detail.

The door slammed in my face, and I was left standing in the hall, nauseous and confused. As I turned to go, I noticed that there was a spot of viscous liquid on my jacket sleeve, where the hand had brushed me, thick and off-white. I had to throw the jacket out, in the end. I couldn’t rid of the smell.

And so that was it for a long time. The man upstairs was named Toby and he was a disgusting shut-in who smelled rancid and occasionally made hammering noises. It was a long way from ideal, but it was something I could understand and live with. Two years passed like this, and I had almost forgotten about him, to be honest. He had become just another part of my life and could be lived around.

It wasn’t until late 2007 I had cause to really think about him again. My mother’s health had taken a turn for the worst over the previous few months, and I had made the decision to move back up to Sheffield to be nearer to her. As I mentioned, I’m self-employed so the move wasn’t as much of a difficulty as it might have been, but it did leave me with the need to sell my flat. I don’t want to get bogged down with the details of my mother’s ailments; in the end, she actually passed away a few months later, from complications following an operation. I still ended up moving, though for a very different reason.

It was difficult to sell the place. Every time someone came round for a viewing it ended the same way, and I started to dread when the inevitable question would come: what’s that smell? It was the third time that the potential buyers, a nice professional couple who worked in the City, pointed out the stain on the living room ceiling. It was subtle at first, a slight discolouration that I had managed to overlook. They assumed it was a leak, and I did too, promising to have a plumber come over and check it out, though I didn’t hear back from them anyway.

I did call for a plumber, but for whatever reason was told that it would be another week before they could see me. I tried to have a couple more viewings in that time, but the stain on the ceiling was becoming more obvious, and the smell had begun to pervade my whole flat, to the point where I was thinking about staying in a hotel until the plumber arrived. I was starting to doubt it was a leaking water pipe. As it grew, it started to turn a dark yellow in colour, and glistened ever so slightly when the light hit it. I knew it was something to do with the flat upstairs, though when I went up to ask this time, my knocking went unanswered.

Finally, the plumber arrived. He wrinkled his nose when he entered, though didn’t make any comment about it. I assume unpleasant smells are just a part of his job. I pointed him towards the stain on the ceiling, and he looked momentarily confused, before telling me what I already knew - that this didn’t look like a problem with the pipes. Still, he said he’d need to knock through the ceiling to have a look, and I’d need a contractor to come and redo that bit of ceiling anyway. I stood back when he put up his stepladder and climbed up to have a look at it. He put on a pair of rubber gloves and gingerly touched the spot, testing it with his fingers. It collapsed almost immediately, buckling and tearing like wet cardboard, and the fluid that oozed out of it was a sickly yellow in colour, with viscous white lumps glistening in it. The plumber looked like he was going to throw up. I did throw up. He made his apologies, and said he’d have to call someone. I didn’t try to stop him leaving.

I was furious, and the anger that surged through me overcame any apprehension I might have felt from approaching the flat upstairs. I stormed up and began to hammer on the door, shouting and threatening that I’d call the police if he didn’t answer. On my third knock the door swung inwards ever-so-slightly, and I realised it was not locked. There is… little in my life that I regret quite as much as going inside.

I pushed the door open as much as I could but it didn’t open very wide, as there seemed to be some sort of resistance behind it. The smell would have been overpowering, but by this point I was almost used to it, and fought down the nausea. There was no light coming from inside, and I fumbled on the wall for a switch. I found it, and the instant before I flicked it on, I realised I felt something soft and wet on the wall next to it. Unfortunately, before I had a chance to fully comprehend what I was feeling, I had turned on the light and saw Toby Carlisle’s flat in its entirety.

The light that came on was weak and tinged with red, but it was enough to see by. I looked around, and saw that every surface, the walls, the floor, the tables, everything except the curtained windows, was covered in meat. Steaks, chunks of chicken, even a whole leg of what I assume was once lamb, had been nailed everywhere. There were layers of it, the newest additions simply stuck on top of the old, and a putrid yellow-white rot could be seen where the oldest pieces had long since turned to liquid. Flies buzzed thick in the air, and maggots carpeted the place. Looking up, I saw the light too, had been smeared with meat, causing the place to be bathed in that dull red light.

Lying there, in the centre of the hallway, was the body of Toby Carlisle. His hood was pulled back and I saw his face was covered in puckered, septic lesions and holes. I couldn’t tell which of them had once housed his eyes.

I was frozen in place by the raw horror of what I was seeing, and almost automatically my hand found its way to my phone and I dialled the police. It was only then that my eyes drifted numbly towards the kitchen. There, in the centre of the floor, was a pile of discarded meat and bone, stacked almost as high as a person. It seemed less decayed than the rest of it, though that foul yellow fluid oozed from it and - this is the reason I’m talking to your institute, you see.

Everything else could be put down to the problems of a very, very sick man, nothing supernatural about it, but… when I looked at that heaped pile of meat, it moved. I don’t know how… I don’t know quite how to explain it, other than to tell you that it opened its eyes. It opened all its eyes.

The next thing I remember is the police’s arrival, and a lot of questions from officers trying to hide the fact that they had just finished vomiting. The pile of meat was gone, though the bits that had been nailed to the walls and floors remained. I told the police everything that I just told you, although they dismissed the last bit out of hand. I believe they had to call in a hazmat team in the end.

There’s not much more to it, really. The rest of the story is largely arguing with insurance companies, and counting how many showers it took before I felt clean again. I did move out, in the end, and now live in a house in Clapham with some friends. People who are very clean, and don’t mind the fact that I have recently become a vegetarian.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Well, I’m certainly glad I had my lunch before recording this statement. Looking into this one has proven a bit tricky, as police, hospital and even fire department records give wildly conflicting reports. What we can be sure of is that, on the evening of October the 22nd, 2007, there was an incident at a first floor flat in Welbeck House that involved hazardous biological material, and led the recovery of the body of one Toby Carlisle, the legal owner of the property. The cause of death was listed as gangrene.

We contacted Mr. Rudenko, who confirmed that since moving he had had no further experiences he believed to be linked to these events, and after an extensive course of counselling was attempting to move past them. He did corroborate the existing statement, though, saying he still believed it to be a true account of what happened to him. I’m not entirely sure I agree, although obviously there’s little in the way of evidence to the contrary.

One thing puzzles me, however. Sasha managed to get access to some of Toby Carlisle’s old financial records and it didn’t appear like he had any real money coming in, and what he did have was largely going to pay council tax on the property. There are no records of transactions at any supermarkets or online delivery firms, and Tim even asked round some of the local butchers, as Martin is still off sick. At the end of all this, we’ve still been unable to answer one question: where was he getting the meat? I don’t know why, but it bothers me.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Father Edwin Burroughs, regarding his claimed demonic possession. Original statement given May 30th, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Thank you for coming. I know that this can’t have been easy to arrange, and I appreciate the opportunity to make my statement. The Prison Service probably didn’t make it easy for you. They’re understandably hesitant to give anyone extended access to me, in case I get violent, but I’m very glad they made an exception for you. At least, assuming that you’re real. I hope you’re real, but maybe it’s that hope that’s being used against me in a cruel joke. Or maybe the joke would be that I would let that doubt cost me my only chance to tell my story. Either way, I choose to make my statement, and if you’re not real, then hopefully, no harm done.

We’ll get to the cannibalism, of course, but first I just want to provide some context. I don’t know how much you work with the Church in your Institute. You may be surprised that a man of the cloth such as myself, however far from grace I may have fallen, would enlist the aid of an organisation dedicated to studying the paranormal. Well, to be honest, it’s generally kept quiet, but the Catholic Church is not against belief in the supernatural outside of the official doctrine. Demons, ghosts, black magic… It’s generally up to the individual how much they believe in these things, and I believe that very much of what you research is real. Dangerous, but real. I’ve always seen the Devil’s work as a very tangible thing, and those priests who might speak of them as metaphor or symbol are, I fear, often placing themselves and their parishioners in a position of peril. Sorry, this is becoming a homily. It’s just been some time since I’ve had a chance to express myself like this; I almost don’t care if it is on one of Its phantasms.

So it was only natural, I suppose, that it was relatively early in my vocation as a priest that I trained as an exorcist. It’s not something all that special really, every diocese should have a trained exorcist available, or failing that a bishop can do it, but nine times out of ten the duties of an exorcist are to recommend a good psychiatrist, doctor or substance abuse program, and bishops don’t usually have time for that.

I was an exorcist for the Diocese of Oxford when this all happened. I trained as a Jesuit, so I was used to moving about a lot, but I was at Oxford from about 2005 right through to my arrest in 2009. There were two exorcists in the diocese, myself and an old Augustinian by the name of Father Harrogate. I would ask as a favour that you not follow up with him; he plays no part in what happened to me and would, I think, be upset by any reminder of my actions.

In my time I have performed just over one hundred exorcisms, with varying degrees of success. It was relatively rare that it felt like much more than a blessing or a prayer. It still helped in most cases, but as one of the most common types of possession is not The Exorcist-style of speaking in a demonic tongue and floating off the bed, but rather that of an unnatural depression, it was often hard to be sure. It is difficult to say how many were devout believers who came to us with a very natural depression, and simply preferred to look to the Church than to counselling or medicine. Even those were helped to some degree, I believe, even if only as a placebo. On a few occasions, though I did encounter things that served to firm up my belief in the Devil and my faith in my Lo- my L- I’m sorry, It won’t let me say the words. It won’t let me pray either, but I hope I will not be judged too harshly for it on the final day.

As I was saying, there were times when I felt things pushing back. I was once cursed at in Sumerian by a young man who was utterly illiterate, and had the names of my childhood pets thrown at me by an old Jamaican man. I will admit that there were times that I have been very afraid of what I was trying to remove, but I always had faith in Je- I always had faith. None of it prepared me for what happened on Bullingdon Road, though. That was something else entirely.

I was doing some work at the Catholic chaplaincy in Saint Aldates, generally trying to help the spiritual well-being of the students who came to us, when Father Singh, one of the other priests working there, came to me. He said he had a student from Saint Hugh’s asking after an exorcism, and wanted to refer her to me. I told him of course, and he set up a meeting between us. The student’s name was Bethany O’Connor, and much of what she told me was under the seal of confession, something I will not break even now, so suffice it to say she believed that she was no longer in control of her own mind.

Even as we talked, she spent much of her time looking around or staring into my eyes with what I can only describe as pointed suspicion. Bethany told me that her will was still her own but she could no longer trust her senses, and had found herself doing much that she did not understand.

I remember one moment very clearly, in our second meeting I believe. We were taking a walk around the botanical gardens, as she said it calmed her when talking of her problem. She reached into her bag, took out what appeared to be a small slab of stone, slate, I think, and started to lift it to her mouth as if to eat it. I asked her what she was doing, and she stopped, looked at the rock she held in her hand, and threw it away before bursting into tears. She told me that it felt like something was in her head, changing what she saw and felt and thought.

I asked when this had started, and she told me it was after she had moved out of her college halls and into a house on Bullingdon Road with her friends. I suggested that perhaps it had something to do with the stresses of entering second year, but she insisted it was something to do with the house. Finally, after several discussions, I agreed to look over the house and perform a small blessing in case there was anything wrong with the place, spiritually speaking.

It was a cold morning in December, near the end of Michaelmas term, when I visited 89 Bullingdon Road. It was an old house, though not so old as to be unusual in that part of Oxford, and had clearly once been a small family house, now partitioned by the lettings agency to house as many students as possible. Bethany told me that there were six of them living there at the time. I went around the house, looking for signs of anything amiss but found nothing that seemed out of the ordinary. Bethany kept asking me if I “felt any evil” in the house, and I tried to explain to her that priests unfortunately don’t have the power to simply sense the presence of evil.

I didn’t realise how unfortunate that was, at least not until we got her room. It was on the first floor at the back of the house, and was a long, thin bedroom, easily the biggest. It was adorned in typical student fashion with movie posters and flat-pack bookshelves, but my attention was immediately taken by a large patch of wall where the wallpaper had been crudely hacked away to reveal the bare brickwork underneath. Written there, in faded blue paint, was a single word: Mentis.

I’d been out of seminary for some years at this point, and had never been one for the Latin Mass, but I still knew the word for ‘mind’. My immediate assumption was that Bethany had painted it in some sort of mania, but looking closer, I saw that the paint was far too old to have been done since she moved in. It looked more as though it had been painted on the wall and then covered up with layers of wallpaper over the years, until finally being unearthed by stripping it away.

What was slightly more concerning, was that watching Bethany pace around the room, following my gaze with some confusion, was that she didn’t seem able to see it. When I asked her what the word on the wall meant to her, she looked at me as though I was talking nonsense.

I didn’t seem like there was much more to be gained there at that point, so I performed a short blessing over the place, took some photographs, and told Bethany that I would have to come back later once I’d looked into a few things. She seemed disappointed there wasn’t anything more immediate that I was doing, but didn’t try to argue. And so I left what would turn out to be my first visit to the house on Bullingdon Road, calling Father Singh to arrange a meeting the next day where we could discuss whether to attempt a full exorcism.

It was at that meeting that I got the call from the hospital. Bethany had been admitted with severe facial lacerations and was asking to see me immediately. I made my way to the John Radcliffe as soon as I was able and was surprised to see two police officers standing near her bed. I was met by Anne Willett, the nurse who Bethany had asked to call me. I knew Annie a bit already, as she’d attended the church where I ministered and I recognised her from the congregation. She explained to me that Bethany had apparently attempted to attack one of her housemates with a kitchen knife, and in the ensuing struggle ended up falling head first into a full-length mirror, cutting herself very badly.

I was, to put it mildly, somewhat taken aback. This was such an escalation from what Bethany had described before, and I was starting to fear that if I didn’t manage to do something the poor girl would most likely end up locked away somewhere. Annie was convinced that an exorcism was the only way, and so finally, I agreed to do so. I had already got permission from the Bishop, but that was before Bethany’s hospitalisation, and I would have preferred to discuss it with him. Still, it was clear she was getting worse and I decided to take a risk and try it anyway.

It was a stupid risk to take. I was cocky and complacent, full of spiritual pride and an eagerness to test my faith against whatever was inside of Bethany’s soul, not even considering that I might be risking it. Still, I have paid dearly for my hubris.

We waited until the police had taken their statements and left, and then I set up and began the exorcism. It went… unusually. There was no resistance from Bethany, almost no reaction at all, and in many parts of the ceremony where in my experience there was usually a response either from the demon, or at least the victim, there was instead just… silence, as she stared at me with a look, almost seemed like pity. Annie just stood in the corner, watching and clearly eager to help, despite the fear I saw in her eyes. At last, Bethany locked eyes with me and slowly shook her head. “I’m so sorry,” she said, “It wants your faith.”

Without warning she began to convulse. Thrashing in obvious pain. I tried to continue the ritual, but the doctors pushed passed me, desperately trying to help Bethany as blood began to pour from her mouth where she had bitten into her tongue. In the end they couldn’t save her. Brain haemorrhage, they said, probably from the blow to head when she hit the mirror and they just hadn’t spotted it.

I was asked to leave in no uncertain terms, and the doctors made it very clear that I may not have been the one that hit her in the head, but they held me very much accountable for her death. I was also given a very thorough dressing down by my Bishop, who told me to take a step back and leave the exorcisms to Father Harrogate for some time. Annie almost got suspended over the matter, but in the end was spared further disciplinary action, as she had been simply passing on the wishes of the patient.

And for a couple of years that was it. I felt a great deal of guilt over my involvement with Bethany’s death, and I started to drink more than I had before. I was never, I think, in danger of becoming an alcoholic, as most of the priests I worked with had done work with substance abusers - not to mention the fact that priests are certainly not immune to alcoholism - and would have picked up on the warning signs. But they did express concern over the occasional disappearance of bottles of sacramental wine. At the time, I was sure it wasn’t me. I preferred scotch, and the Muscatel wine they bought had never really been to my taste, but looking back, I can’t really be sure what I was drinking. I know it’s something of a jump from unwittingly stealing holy wine to my later crimes, but I’m trying my best to fit this into a relatively coherent narrative.

Apart from that, the years passed uneventfully, and I was starting to feel like I’d put the whole affair behind me. Until I got a call from Annie. She said that a gentleman had been admitted to the John Radcliffe after having something of a scare in a house up on Hill Top Road. I explained to her that I wasn’t performing exorcisms at the moment, and said she should talk to Father Harrogate. She assured me it wouldn’t need a full exorcism, and if I did we could bring him in, but she didn’t know or trust Father Harrogate, but just wanted my opinion. Finally, after a lot of pestering, I agreed to pay a visit to the house.

It was late when I got there, and starting to get very cold. The whole affair was starting to bring back some less than pleasant memories of my arrival at Bullingdon Road all those years ago. I was also a bit annoyed at Annie for not mentioning that the house was still under construction, not only making it unlikely to be the haunt of demons or spirits, but also meaning that the coat I had brought along would be somewhat inadequate against the chill in a house without windows.

I knocked on the door and one of the builders opened it. I forget his name, I’m afraid, something Polish I think, or maybe Czech? He seemed confused at first as to why I was there, but I explained and it turned out he was the one that had been treated by Annie at the hospital. She had not mentioned the builder’s possible schizophrenia to me, but I began to fear that this may be a waste of time. Still, I had a look around and asked the builder questions about the place. He certainly did have an interesting story, but I was unsure of how much of it I believed.

Eventually, I decided that I’d seen enough and that there didn’t seem to be any malicious presence here. The builder was looking at me in such as way as to make me hesitant to tell him that, so I decided I would at least give the place a quick prayer or blessing. I asked him to wait outside, though. Something in his manner was a bit off-putting and I felt uncomfortable with him watching me like a hawk, as though I were about to vanish at any moment.

He headed into the back garden, and I was alone in the house. I moved into the hallway and began to pray, praying for protection and sprinkling holy water around from a flask I carry on me in these situations.

As I spoke the words I felt something… alarming. I was starting to grow very hot, as though the room was heating up very rapidly. I looked around for the source of the heat, but the radiators hadn’t been installed yet and I couldn’t see anything else that might be warming the room. It continued, though, and soon I was sweating through my shirt. I began to cough, and I could smell smoke, even though I couldn’t see any or any fire, for that matter.

I fell to one knee and choked back a scream as I felt my skin began to crackle and burn. I began to pray again for protection, not for the place this time, but for me. As I did, I felt… something answer me. And yet, I cannot stress this enough: what answered was not G- God. It wasn’t Him. Something else answered my call for protection. I felt my lips move. They made no sound that I could hear, but I felt them form every syllable. “I am not for you. I am marked.”

The heat slowed in its increase but it did not stop. My mouth continued to speak for me, when I heard the sound of a car engine outside and a great crash. Instantly, the feeling was gone, as though it were never there, and looking out, I saw the builder had managed to uproot a tree from the back garden. I sat there for a while catching my breath, and when he came back inside, I told him I had completed the prayers and excused myself quickly. It was the first time I had experienced -

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Unfortunately, this statement as it stands is incomplete, and stops at this point. It does not appear to be the actual end of the document, so I have hopes that the rest is simply misfiled somewhere else in the archives. If this is the case, I will record and add that part when it is found, either by myself or, given the scale of the Archive’s mismanagement, by my successor when I pass away from old age.

With this in mind, all but the most preliminary of investigations into this statement are being put on hold until the rest is found. Most of the details do appear to be correct and match the statement given by Mr. Ivo Lensik in 2007. We did find Father Burroughs’ arrest record, though, and I am very curious to see how the events recounted here could have led to the incident in 2009, wherein he apparently murdered two first year university students following Sunday Mass, and then peeled off and ate most of their skin.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Continuation of the statement of Father Edwin Burroughs, regarding his claimed demonic possession. Original statement given May 30th, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement continues.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It was the first time I had experienced anything like that. By this point, I was starting to suspect that I may have been having hallucinations of some sort, but I had never before felt a… a presence within myself, inside my being. It was a feeling so utterly awful it’s hard to put it into words. Like a reflex reaction, your muscles moving without any instruction from your mind, but rather than a quick twitch of the leg, it’s a slow movement of your jaw, your lips, forming your mouth into words. Worse things were to come, of course, but I don’t think any of them were so profoundly unsettling as that feeling.

I only got a few streets away from Hill Top Road before I was no longer able to maintain my equilibrium and fell to the floor, violently throwing up. I could not deny then that there was something inside me, and I believed that whatever it was had entered me from Bethany O’Connor. I tried to pray, tried to cast my mind to G- I couldn’t. As I tried, my throat closed and I struggled to breathe.

I lay on the side of the pavement, and I wept. Wiping my eyes, I took out my Bible, and looked desperately within it for comfort but when I opened it, though the page was within the Gospel of Luke, the words were from Genesis: “Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay me.”

Around that passage the writing morphed and swam before my eyes. And wherever there were words that might give me comfort, I found them obscured by dark stains. The bile began to rise within my throat again, and I desperately wanted to hurl the book away from me. I held it, though, for just a moment before I placed the small volume once again in my jacket. It took more willpower than I could have believed, but I kept it. I stood up shakily, and staggered back to the presbytery.

I slept for a long time, and missed morning Mass, saying I was feeling unwell. It wasn’t a lie, of course; I just lay there for hours. There seemed a safety in stillness, as though inaction could do no harm. It was the first good decision I had made, and there isn’t day goes by I don’t curse myself for ever rising from that bed. Nobody bothered me - I think word had gotten round that I was having a difficult time and they were almost certainly trying to decide who would be best to talk to me, or even whether to ask the Bishop to intervene.

I decided that I needed to talk to Father Singh. I didn’t think that he would be able to help me, but he was at least familiar with Bethany O’Connor’s case. Perhaps he might have some insight into what was happening. I tried to find him quickly - the faces on each crucifix and painting I passed seemed to twist and sneer at me as I walked and my head was throbbing. The painted blood glistened as though still wet. I’m glad I didn’t encounter anyone, for I was staggering so much they would likely have thought I was drunk.

Finally I found Father Singh in the small chapel. He seemed surprised to see me and as I approached, his face fell and he backed away ever so slightly. I can’t imagine how bad I must have looked to get such a reaction from him, but I sat next to him anyway. I began to talk, to tell him everything that had happened. He remained silent as I spoke, until I began to talk about the exorcism I had tried to perform on Bethany. He held up his hand, and asked if I’d prefer to speak about it in confession. I was momentarily confused, and asked him what sin he felt I had committed. He looked at me, and I swear there was almost a smile on his face when he spoke. “Spiritual pride,” he said, “that has led to quite a fall.”

Unsettled though I was at his attitude, I could not deny that he was right. I agreed, and we left the chapel. Soon I was giving my account as a full confession, and I could not keep from crying as I described what happened when I attempted to lay a blessing upon that house on Hill Top Road. I finished my account, and waited for Father Singh to speak of my penance or absolution. Instead, he paused for a few moments, then said, “No, your sins are deeper than that.” And he began to list them.

Every transgression I had made since I was six years old. The disabled child I had bullied in primary school, the time I stole money from my mother’s purse to buy cigarettes, the indiscretions I had had at the seminary. All of them. I had confessed them each before and been absolved, but not to Father Singh, and to hear them thrown back in my face as such a stark list of wickedness rattled me deeply. I noticed something else as he spoke: Father Singh only emigrated from Jaipur a decade or so before I met him, and he had always had quite a strong accent, but the voice that spoke now to read my litany of wrongdoing had no trace of it. It was a clipped and crisp RP accent, though in tone it seemed to match that of my friend.

I leapt to my feet and ran from the room, and towards the front door. I needed to get out, to get somewhere I could breathe. In the hallway I ran past two other priests, who looked more worried than ever. One of them was Father Singh.

It was dark when I left the presbytery. I had no idea where I was going or why; I just had the desperate need to be somewhere else. The streets of Oxford should have been full of drunken students at that time on a Sunday night - at least, I thought it was Sunday - but they were almost deserted. Occasionally, I would see figures standing or walking at the end of the narrow streets, but they were shadowy, silhouetted against what little light there was, and were always gone when I approached. I tried once again to pray but the words died on my tongue. I have never felt despair on the sheer scale I did at that moment.

The streets of Oxford are winding, and speak to the age of the place, but I had lived there for no small amount of time and knew them well. That night, though, it was as though I had never walked them before. I saw roads that I had travelled a hundred times, but they seemed different, my eyes focusing on details I had never before marked, and at each turn I found I did not know where I was going or what place it would take me to. The world I knew had become alien to me, and I simply didn’t know what to do.

Finally, I found myself in front of The Oratory on Woodstock Road. The church’s large round window shifted as I watched, as though it were a tremendous eye that were turning to focus upon me. The door was open and from within, a warm light spilled out. Even in the depths of my - I suppose you could call it mania - there was something comforting about that light. A man appeared at the door. He was tall and pale, and dressed as an altar server.

I walked up to him. My vision was blurred, though I could not tell you whether it was my state of mind at the time or simply that I was crying. I should have known that something was wrong. I did know that something was wrong, but it didn’t matter. I had no fight left within me, so when he told me that it was time for Mass, I simply nodded and followed.

He led me through the church. It was bright, so bright. Candles covered every surface, each glowing so powerfully that I could barely look directly at them. The layout was how I remembered, but the pews were all empty, and I could see none of the statues or crosses that I expected. The man led me unresisting into the vestry, where I found my cassock and stole laid out in front of me. The stole was not green as I would have expected for a normal Sunday mass, nor was it violet or red or any other liturgical colour. Instead it was a pale, sickly yellow. I felt the eyes of the altar server upon my back, and dressed quickly.

At that moment, the bell rang to mark the start of the mass. It was a single, jarring tone that cut through the air and made me almost double over in pain, so badly did it pierce into my pounding skull. I regained myself, gripping the thin, bony arm of the altar server, and walked out into the church. The pews were full now. Row upon row of people, far more than had ever before attended a mass that I had said. Each was dressed in black from head to toe, and their skin was fevered, jaundiced yellow. The eyes of every man, woman and child stared blankly forward, and their mouths hung open, wide and smiling, like their jaws had locked in silent rictus.

I could have left. I know that now. I know that my will and my actions were my own, and even at the time I knew that what I was seeing was so wrong. So very wrong but… it didn’t feel like at the time I could have made any other choice. Even in that strange place, stared at by hellish parishioners I must have known weren’t really there. G-… Forgive me, even then, I thought to find some comfort in the liturgy. The odd-smelling incense swirled about me from the altar server’s brazier, and my head swam with a scent that felt so familiar, yet so foreign.

Finally, I stood before the altar and began the mass. I was surprised as I spoke, and the holy names slipped from my mouth without hesitation, but the congregation I addressed were quiet, and each pause for a response was met with only that oppressive, wide-mouthed silence, a jarring void that tightened the fear I felt gripping my soul. When the Liturgy of the Word began, I watched in silent dread as the altar server stepped to the pulpit to deliver the first reading. He stood there, dark eyes scanning the open bible, before he raised his head and looked up as though to speak, but all that came from his throat was the single tolling sound of that bell, and my head pulsed in pain. The same thing happened for the second reading, that long, drawn out chime.

Then came the reading of the Gospel. I walked to the pulpit myself, and saw the passage indicated was Mark, chapter 9, verses 14-19. I began to try and read it, but my voice was gone and from my own mouth came the sound of that bell. I fell to the floor, but no-one moved to help me.

Eventually, I was able to stand again, and a dull panic began to rise within me as I realised that next came the Liturgy of the Eucharist. The thought of these people, these things, taking the body of J- taking the sacrament of Holy Communion felt like the direst of blasphemies. I didn’t stop, though. I didn’t know what else to do, and my mind was swimming with the sound of the bell and the collective horror of all the things that I had seen and felt.

The altar server brought me the communion wafers and the wine, and I took them. My hands felt strange and clammy as I held them, but I brought them to the altar and began to speak. This time my words came out crisp and clear, and as I said them I noticed fewer and fewer of the parishioners seemed to be in the pews. Hope began to rise within me, as it seemed the words would work to banish these jaundiced watchers, and I pressed on. Finally, the pews were empty, and my heart soared as I turned towards the tabernacle to retrieve the rest of the Host.

It was strange, the rich cloth curtain that covered that ornate metal box seemed stuck, so I pulled and pulled and eventually it came free. I opened the door and retrieved the Host, returning it to the altar. Then I… I lifted it to my mouth, and I ate. It did not taste as I expected.

I’m sure you’ve guessed the reality of what it was I was eating. I don’t even know where I was, some dingy basement, from what it seemed when the light fell from my eyes and I returned to reality. At least, I assume this is reality. I dream, sometimes, that perhaps this is the illusion - my arrest and imprisonment merely a hallucination. That I’m not a murdering cannibal.

It doesn’t matter. At that moment, seeing those bound corpses before me, I made the decision to take no action ever again. I will not commit the further sin of ending my life, but I sat there until the police came. I pled guilty to all the charges they laid before me, and now here I am, doubting everything I see and hear. I do worry about the state of my soul, of course, but there is little to be done. My old colleagues have come by on occasion, and even the Bishop once, but it doesn’t help. Whatever they may be actually be saying, all I can hear is the sound of the bell.

Thank you for your time.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

As it turns out the second part of this statement was simply misfiled in the next folder, which was useful, although it does beg the question of who was reading it last? Martin is still absent, but Tim and Sasha both swear they haven’t seen it before. Was my predecessor reading it at some point? That seems unlikely given the state of the place; I find it hard to credit the idea that Gertrude Robinson actually read any of these files. Still, it’s hardly our biggest concern.

It’s difficult to know where to begin with a statement like this. If the person giving their testimony is unable to distinguish the real and the unreal, that doesn’t usually bode well for anyone trying to find evidence. Let us begin with Bethany O’Connor. From what Sasha could find in the records of St Hugh’s College, she was indeed a student with them, studying archaeology, matriculating in 2008. Everything Father Burroughs says about her faith, her hospitalisation and her death appears to match up with official records. However, college records appear to list her as one of the students living in halls during her second year, rather than in an off-campus house, and it was a porter who she attacked with a kitchen knife, rather than a housemate. In fact, according to the letting agent, there was no-one living at 89 Bullingdon Road that year, so whatever Bethany was doing in that house, it wasn’t living there legally.

Father Burroughs’ old colleagues from the Church certainly remember his falling apart following the failed exorcism. They were apparently in the process of talking to the Bishop to get him some help when the ‘culminating incident’ occurred that led to his incarceration. Prior to meeting Bethany O’Connor, none of them had anything but the highest praise for the man.

As for the incident itself, Father Burroughs was found in one of the back rooms of 89 Bullingdon Road. He was wearing a butcher’s apron and sat in front of two students, Christopher Bilham and James Mann. They were both tied to chairs and quite dead. Cause of death was listed as blood loss from multiple lacerations all over their legs and torso, as well as removal of both their faces with a sharp blade, possibly a scalpel. The face of James Mann was found to have been partially eaten by Father Burroughs. He pled guilty to all charges brought before him and is currently serving two life sentences at Wakefield Prison, though HMPS refused our request for a follow-up interview.

What interests me is the paralleling of Father Burroughs’ climactic hallucination with reality, and the fact that at no point did he perform any actions that might be analogous with the binding and actual murder of the students. Also, it strikes me that the altar server he described seems out of place with most of his other delusions, in that he appeared to have active agency, which is uncharacteristic for these visions the priest describes. Finally, there is the small detail mentioned in the police report that none of the tools used to kill or mutilate the victims were found at the scene. This all leads me to believe that there may have been a second person there that night, although from talking with the police, I get the impression that there is little appetite for re-opening the case, considering how successful the initial prosecution was.

There’s one other detail Tim uncovered that sticks out to me. It’s a name I recognise, though I have no idea what it could mean. The Oratory was obviously not the actual scene of Father Burroughs’ crimes, but there was one strange thing that happened a few days prior. They received delivery of a pale yellow stole, which apparently vanished less than a day after they signed for it. This would be unusual, but not necessarily noteworthy, if it wasn’t for fact that one of the deacons recalled the package was handed to them by a company called Breekon and Hope Deliveries.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Moira Kelly, regarding the disappearance of her son Robert. Original statement given October 20th, 2002. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
You must forgive me if it takes a while to get this all down on paper. I’m not a fast writer and what I saw is… It’s all very well to say “write down what you saw”, but what if you don’t have the words? What I saw doesn’t make any sense, and it makes my head hurt awfully when I try to remember it well enough to describe.

Am I mad? What happened is mad. It can’t have happened. But it did. It took my Robert, and… now I can’t even think of how to put it down in a way that explains it. Maybe somewhere in your library are the words that explain what happened, what I saw, but I haven’t read your books, and knowing wouldn’t bring him back. I suppose I’ll just have to try.

My son, Robert, was always an adventurous boy. Even when he was a child he’d be running off and getting into scrapes every chance he got. We were living out in the country back then, Althorpe, a little village in Lincolnshire, and every chance he got Robert would be out in the woods with his friends, climbing trees and exploring deep into the forests. He had a few other children who would join him, but he always climbed higher than they did, always pushed further. I can’t even remember all the times he almost got himself lost out there when he was growing up.

As he got older, his interests changed, but that sense of danger never left him. I used to have to drive him half an hour every Wednesday, because that was the closest leisure centre with a climbing wall, and he was obsessed with reaching the top. After he went away to university, he’d come home every holiday with some new dangerous sport he’d taken up: wakeboarding, mountain-biking. He almost missed his father’s funeral because he was away on a scuba-diving trip to Cyprus, and only just managed to book a last minute flight home. It wasn’t his fault, of course, Stephen’s death came as a shock to us all; what I mean to say is… I wasn’t at all surprised when he told me a few years ago that he’d gotten very involved in skydiving.

It had started as a charity thing. His last year at Yarmouth he decided to do a skydive for a charity he’d been volunteering with. I went along to support him when he did it, and when he touched down, I could see it in his eyes, even before he’d removed his parachute, that he was in love. Since then, it was rare that a month went by without him throwing himself out of a plane, to the point where I wondered where he was getting the money, as from what I hear it’s not a cheap hobby, and he certainly wasn’t getting much from me.

Shortly after Robert graduated, he came to visit. He was the happiest I’d seen him since his father passed away, and when I asked him about it, he said he’d got a job with a company that ran skydiving all over the country. They were called Open Skydiving, and, his face was beaming when he said this, he was now a fully qualified skydiving instructor. I was happy for him of course, even though every time he described jumping it sounded quite dreadful to me. I had always made it clear that he was never going to get me up there, plummeting through the sky.

After that, I didn’t see him much. He was home for Christmas and Mother’s Day, if I was lucky, but aside from that, it was the occasional phone call, or even a postcard if he was running a dive at somewhere far away. I have a small stack of them back home, all I really have to remember him by. I remember he sent me one from Aberystwyth, of all places, not too far back, and he signed it “with love from your freefalling son”. I used to really like that, but now the phrase just makes shudder.

He was happy, though. He was doing what he loved. I try to hold on to that. There was no way for me to know that anything was wrong. I mean, nothing was wrong. I’m sure of it. Not until that last time.

He came to see me three months ago. I was surprised, as June is the height of the season and his last phone call had seemed to say that he was expecting to be busy right up until winter arrived. Still, here he was, standing on the doorstep and he looked to be in an awful state. He had deep bags under his eyes and it didn’t look as though he’d washed in some time. Before he’d said anything I took him inside, sat him down and started to run a hot bath. Whatever had happened, I told him, could wait until he’d gotten himself together. I think I had the right of it, as once he had cleaned himself up and had some hot food he seemed a lot more himself than he had been. Still, he spent a good ten minutes just sat there, staring into space.

I asked him what the matter was, whether he’d had an accident or lost his job or something. When I said that, he laughed an odd sort of laugh and said that he had lost his job. He’d quit, he said. I asked him why, after all he had always loved the whole business of skydiving, but as I said the word ‘sky’ I saw him flinch back like I had slapped him. So I quieted down and asked him to tell me what had happened.

They’d been running a dive up near Doncaster, he said. Some 85-year-old doing a tandem jump for charity in memory of his wife. He hadn’t been the one actually doing the jump with the old man, but it was a significant enough thing that his colleague had asked him to come up as well for support. He’d be coming down alone on a solo parachute. It all started well enough, the flight up was fine, and the old man, who said his name was Simon, appeared to be having a great time, making jokes, and quite frankly a lot more eager to throw himself out of a plane than almost anyone Robert had ever met before.

Finally the climb finished, and the door was opened to the rush of air. Harriet Fairchild, the instructor, readied herself to jump, with Simon strapped to her chest. It was at this moment, Robert said, that the old man turned to him, shouting something. He didn’t hear it clearly, but thought it had been “enjoy sky blue”. He’d felt dizzy all of a sudden, almost falling to the floor as Harriet hurled herself and her passenger out of the plane. It passed in a moment, though, and he pushed himself out of the door, and was greeted by that familiar plunging feeling in his stomach as he began his freefall.

He knew something was wrong almost immediately. He was jumping, he said, from about ten thousand feet, so should have been falling for almost thirty seconds before opening his parachute, but he was having trouble keeping count. The clear blue sky was so bright it seemed to blind him, and the numbers were all jumbled in his head. His balance seemed to be all turned around and he said he had had to shut his eyes tight against the brightness, concentrating to keep his count. Finally, he reached what he thought was thirty seconds, and went to pull his ripcord, but as he did, he said, he opened his eyes again and froze. The ground was gone.

I asked him what he meant, had he got turned around, maybe. He just shook his head, and told me again that the ground had gone. All that there was, he said, was that vast, empty blue sky, stretching off before him, but still he was falling into it. It was bright, he kept saying, it was so bright, although there was no sun in that sky and no clouds for it to hide behind. Just the empty, blue sky in all directions as he fell into it. He wanted to pull the ripcord, to unfurl his parachute, but his hand wouldn’t close over the grip. So he just fell.

Robert was shaking badly at this point, so I got him a blanket and made him another cup of tea. I wasn’t sure I believed all what he was saying, but he’d certainly been through something dreadful; I could see that. I asked him how long he’d been falling like that, and he said he didn’t know. His watch had stopped, but it had felt like hours. Days even. He had been so hungry, he said, but had just kept falling. He didn’t know which direction; there was just that empty sky all around, so it was impossible to tell.

Finally, he said, he saw the ground again. It didn’t feel like a change or a sudden difference, he just closed his eyes as he had so often in that place, and when he opened them it was there, green and sprawling and rushing up towards him. He’d been so relieved he’d almost forgotten to deploy his parachute. He did, though, and landed safely near the target area.

He was greeted by Harriet, who was surprised by how long it had taken him to get down. She told him it was almost fifteen minutes after when he should have hit the ground, and Simon, this old man, and his supporters had already left. It was obvious something was wrong, and Harriet asked Robert if he was alright. He repeated, “fifteen minutes, just fifteen”, and she told him “yes, what had been the problem?” Robert quit right there and then, and it was shortly after that he came to see me.

Now, obviously, I was a bit speechless at my son’s tale. It’s hard to say how much of it I thought to be true. I didn’t think he would ever have lied to me about something like this, but at the same time the sort of thing he described, well, I didn’t think it sounded like something from a healthy mind. Let’s just say I was thinking the sort of thing… you’ll be thinking in a few minutes. Point is, I tried to talk him through his problems and his feelings, but the more he talked about it, the more agitated he became, until at last I decided that we weren’t getting anywhere, and I got his old room ready for him. He slept soundly that night, as far as I remember.

The next morning was a beautiful day. The sun was streaming through the window, and the air was warm and still, without it being as hot as it had been the week before. When Robert finally woke up, I suggested that we go for a short walk to enjoy the day, and hopefully clear out any of that fear he felt that was still hovering about. He didn’t seem to want to go, at first, he kept glancing at the cloudless sky, but I promised him a picnic lunch and that seemed to convince him.

That last hour was one of the happiest I’d ever spent with my son. In the sunlight, the bags under his eyes seemed to disappear, and after a few minutes he even stopped glancing at the sky all the time. We walked along, sometimes talking, sometime silent, and the world seemed to be alright.

There’s a hill near where I live. It’s a gentle, grassy slope but goes up quite high. You can see it from the kitchen window of my house. That’s one of the reasons I’m moving. It was that hill we were climbing when it happened. We had just reached the top, when Robert turned and to me with a sudden look of utter terror on his face. I asked him what was wrong; he just screamed and pushed me away. I fell hard onto the ground, and could do nothing but watch as my son ran off up the hill.

And then… And then… This is the part I can’t put into words. I’m going to try, but whatever you think of when you read this is not going to be what happened; it will just be the closest I can describe before thinking about it too much gives me a migraine. The closest I can say is this: the sky ate him.

He didn’t fall, or fly, or take-off. There wasn’t anything in the sky that took him. It wasn’t a hand that reached out and grabbed him, it was the sky itself, the whole sky, as far as the horizon I could see, that twisted around and moved like… like the shifting of sand. It ate Robert. That’s the only way I can describe it. Please don’t make me do so again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Before I address the central point of this statement, namely the question of… whether the sky can eat people, there are a few other facts that need to be addressed. Firstly, the company that Ms. Kelly states Robert worked for, Open Skydiving, does not exist, and as far as Sasha’s research can determine, never has. It appears in no company register and has no entries within any of the bodies that deal with the immense number of licences a skydiving business would require. There were one or two news articles from late 2000 that reference events by Open Skydiving, or sometimes the Open Skydiving School, but whatever they were, they were not an officially licensed business, so either they were lying to Robert Kelly, or he was lying to his mother.

Not a lot of detail was given about the skydive where Robert Kelly claims to have been transported to an endless sky blue nothing, but Tim really outdid himself here, and after spending almost a day combing through accident and incident reports for the Doncaster area in June 2002, found one that seems relevant. On the 3rd of June 2002, Joseph Puce reported hearing an impact in the field adjoining his house. Upon investigation, he found a parachute had hit the ground at high speed, partially burying itself in the earth. There was no sign of any body, or anyone who might have been wearing it, nor did it have any logo or label, and in Tim’s follow-up interview, Mr. Puce vehemently denied there being any planes or skydiving taking place anywhere near his property. The parachute was unopened.

According to police reports, Ms. Kelly attempted to report Robert missing on 7th of June, but it proved difficult, due to an absence of any information on friends or residences. In fact, for the four years prior, it’s hard to find any evidence for Robert Kelly’s existence at all. It may just be that he moved around a lot, but it feels like more than that. Ms. Kelly declined our request for a follow-up interview, saying she had no desire to revisit the incident.

One other thing bothers me. If Ms. Kelly’s recollections are correct, regarding how Robert described his last skydive, Harriet Fairchild the instructor and an old man named Simon. It might just be a coincidence, but I recall the name ‘Simon Fairchild’ was one of the ones used by -

[DOOR OPENS, CHAIR TUMBLES]
My god! Martin?!

[SOMETHING SQUELCHES]
What… What the hell is - ? What are these things?!

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Martin, are you sure about this?

MARTIN
I just want to make a statement about what happened to me. I mean, it… it’s what we do.

ARCHIVIST
No, what we do is research statements. Usually those made by liars and the mentally unwell.

MARTIN
Well, I need to tell someone what happened, and you can vouch for the soundness of my mind, can’t you?

ARCHIVIST
…

That is beside the point.

MARTIN
If you’re that worried about it, it doesn’t need to be an official statement. I just need a record of it.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. You’re right. I suppose. Statement of Martin Blackwood, archival assistant at the Magnus Institute, London, regarding…

MARTIN
A close encounter with something I believe to have once been Jane… Prentiss.

ARCHIVIST
Recorded direct from subject, 12th March, 2016.

Statement begins.

MARTIN
Well, a couple of weeks ago, you were looking into that statement about the spider that wouldn’t go away. Carlos… Vittery I think his name was? I knew there was something not right about the whole thing from the off. I said it probably wasn’t natural, him dying and being encased in web when he was found, and I stand by that, though it wasn’t anything to do with spiders that ended up after me. Almost wish it had been. [Nervous laugh] I like spiders. Big ones, at least. Y’know, y’know the ones you can see some fur on; I actually think they’re sort of cute -

ARCHIVIST
Please stick to the statement, Martin.

MARTIN
Right. You asked me to investigate that flat that he lived in down in Boothby Road, and that’s what I do. I take the Northern Line up to Archway and walk the rest of the way down there. It’s still quite early then, and I find the building easily enough. It looks just like Mr. Vittery said it did in his statement, and there’s a big thick door on the front, that looks like it leads into the hall and then to the flats. Obviously it’s locked so I try the buzzers, but nobody’s answering and I figure they’re probably all out at work. I didn’t want to come back to you without due diligence, though - I’ve learned that lesson - so I have a look around the place to see if there’s another way I could go in and have a poke around. Sure enough, as I walk round, I spy a basement window that’s slightly ajar. It isn’t much, but I reckon I can squeeze through it if I try.

As I get… closer, though, I notice there’s something on the ground, nearby. The sunlight catches on it and at first I think it must be a screw or a little piece of metal that someone’s thrown away. I get closer and I see that it looks more like a worm of some sort. It’s maybe an inch long, with a silver segmented body that goes black at one end, almost like it’s been burned. It’s very… still, so I kneel down to have a look and as I get closer it begins to twitch. Its darkened head twists towards me and it starts to… writhe in this kind of eerie way, moving along the ground very fast and straight at me. Well, to be honest I… I freaked out a bit. I leapt to my feet and I just stamped on it before I had a chance to really think about what I was doing. I felt it pop beneath my shoe with a faint cracking sound, like stepping on an eggshell, and a thick, black slime started to ooze from where I stepped on it.

Now, obviously I was pretty disgusted by the whole thing, so I take a moment to scrape off what’s left of it and check around for any more. There’s none that I can see, so after composing myself for a couple of seconds, I continue on my way into the basement. The window was small. Quite a tight squeeze for me, I mean, I’m not exactly the smallest guy in the world, I know, and it’s only once I’m inside that I realise it’s only at ground level for the outside, so I take a bit of a tumble onto the basement floor. Luckily I get away without hurting myself and start to have a quick look around the room. It’s pretty big, and it looks like it goes under pretty much the whole building, but the light from the window doesn’t get very far inside so most of the place was very dark.

Then I realise that I don’t have any sort of torch with me, and I can’t see any light switch on the nearby wall, so I’ve no real way of looking round. I almost decided to turn around and try to climb out back the way I came, not least because the place had a really bad ‘feeling’ to it. Like, like there was this musty smell, and the air was dusty and thick. Also, you’re going to think I’m an idiot when I say this, but I didn’t like the way my… shadow moved. The light from the window behind me cast it pretty clearly on the floor, and looking at it I swear the edges seemed to move. It was like a… like a, like an undulation, like, like they were being shifted by something. I mean… look, I know you hate the word, but it was really… spooky.

Look, anyway, that was when I saw the bottom of the stairs leading up, and I, I didn’t waste any time heading up them. The door at the top wasn’t locked, so I find myself in the ground floor hall of the building and I’ll admit it was a real relief to get out of that place and into the well-lit main building.

I could have left at that point, probably should have, but I decided to try one more time to see if I could talk to the current occupants of Mr. Vittery’s old flat. Due diligence… and all that. So I, I head up to number four and give a few knocks on the door.

I didn’t expect anyone to be in, but the door’s opened by an old woman in a headscarf. I tried to ask her some questions, but it became clear she didn’t really speak much in the way of English. After a few seconds she just shook her head and pointed behind me, closing the door unceremoniously. Turning around, I see a large, dark-skinned man in a very nice-looking suit eyeing me with a bit of suspicion. He introduced himself as Yasir Kundi, and said he owned the building, and became slightly more co-operative after I lied to him and told him that one of the upstairs residents had buzzed me in.

I told him why I was there, although obviously I didn’t mention… breaking in or the Institute or what we do because I find people often don’t understand or respect that out in the real world. I just said that following Mr. Vittery’s death I was looking into some aspects of his history and did he remember anything about the time he was a tenant? Mr. Kundi was about as helpful as you might expect. Told me Carlos Vittery had lived there, seemed weird, always shut himself up, but was never a problem, paid his rent on time. Used to have a cat, but it now lived with the Sanderson couple in number two. He seemed genuinely surprised to hear about the death, but wasn’t able to shed any sort of light on it.

It wasn’t a lot, really. Still, about as much as I might have expected, so I headed back to the Institute and updated you on what I’d found. And, well, as I’m sure you’re aware that was the last time I saw you before I disappeared.

I was heading home when I got to thinking, and I was worried I hadn’t really done enough investigation for you, since I got so freaked out by the basement and all. And then I remembered that I’d seen quite a lot of spider webs in the brief time I was down there, and maybe I should check it out again. I mean, like I said, I’m not really afraid of spiders. So… I went back for another look.

It was dark when I got to Boothby Road, but I saw that the basement window was still open. I’d made sure to bring a torch this time, and after a quick check to make sure nobody was watching, I climbed inside. I knew right then that I’d made a huge… mistake. The air was just as musty as it had been before, but it seemed warmer than it had been, which was strange because outside it was a cold February night. I turned on my torch and shone it around, but was disappointed to see that all those spider webs that I remembered seemed old and unremarkable. If there were spiders there, none were easily seen, and… for a second I thought that the only interesting part of my return trip was that it would land me in prison if I wasn’t careful. Then, I heard movement. From the other side of the basement.

It was… faint, just a rustling, really. I didn’t want to check it out, I really didn’t. I’ve catalogued and looked into enough of these cases to know that following the noise is always a really, really bad idea, but… I mean… it’s my job, isn’t it? So, I slowly moved towards it, keeping my torch held in front of me like a… like a shield. The beam was so much weaker than I had thought it was, and it only lit up the stark outlines of the shelves and detritus that littered the basement. The movement had stopped, or at least I couldn’t hear it anymore, and I’d almost made up my mind to just turn around and leave, when my torch fell across what looked like a human figure.

It appeared to be… a woman. She was facing away from me, apparently staring at the corner of the wall. Her hair was long and black, though it was so twisted and dirty it was hard to tell if that was its original colour. She wore a threadbare grey overcoat, though beneath it her legs were bare, and covered with what I at first I thought were spots. In her right hand she held a stained, green handkerchief. She stood there, totally still, either not noticing the torchlight that was shining on her, or not caring. I didn’t move a muscle.

Then, with a quick, jerky movement she brought the handkerchief to her face and coughed. I mean, I call it a cough, because that’s what it looked like, but it didn’t sound like a cough. It was more like… like… you know in a nature documentary, w-when the lion’s caught something and it’s, it’s ripping it apart? That noise of wet meat…? Yeah, it was, was like that. I saw something drop from the handkerchief onto the floor. It was about an inch long, silver, and it wriggled as it fell.

I screamed. I’m not ashamed to admit it, though looking back I really wish I hadn’t. Her head snapped towards me and she locked eyes with me. Her pupils seemed ragged and collapsed, and when she smiled her teeth were chipped and blackened. I started to stagger backwards, expecting at any moment for her to lunge at me, but instead she slowly reached up and… let the overcoat fall to the floor.

Her skin was pale, almost grey, and full of… sorry, it still makes me sick to think about it. It was full of holes. Deep, black holes just honeycombing every bit of flesh like a… wasps’ nest. I could see those… thin, silver worms crawling in and out, and their black tips twitching as they squirmed through that… pitted… meat. I mean, it wasn’t human. It can’t have been. Sh-She… It took a step towards me and as it did so the worms began to writhe out of every hole and cavity, falling to the floor in a cascading… wave and starting to crawl towards me with… with alarming speed.

I had the oddest thought, then, and even as I backed away towards the stairs, I started to get my phone out. The daft thing is I wasn’t even going to call anyone for help, I just wanted to take a picture of the thing. To prove to you that it happened - you’re always so quick to dismiss these statements and I wanted proof for you. Except, well, I managed to drop it, of course. Just as I was bringing up the camera app, one of the worm-things reached at me and leapt at my face. That thing jumped literally 6 feet through the air at my face. It missed me, but I was so taken aback that I fell onto the stairs behind me, and dropped my phone to the ground. I-I didn’t stop to pick it up, I just fled up the stairs as fast as I could.

Obviously the door at the top wasn’t locked. If it had been… I’m sure I’d be dead. Or… worse. I ran faster than I ever have in my life - I’ve never been good at running - and every moment expected to feel something wriggling up my leg. I didn’t stop running until I was sat in the Underground and had checked every inch of my seat for worms. I live in Stockwell, right at the other end of the Northern Line, so by the time I got home I was… starting to feel a bit safer… though utterly exhausted. I knew that there was no way I was going to be able to work the next day, but without my phone, I couldn’t let you know. I mean, I don’t have a landline - who does anymore - but couldn’t bring myself to stay awake long enough to send an email, so I just collapsed, fully clothed onto the bed.

I don’t know how long I slept for, but it was still dark when the knocking woke me up. I don’t know if it was the same night, or if I’d slept right through the day. Either way, I dragged myself up and, as I sat there, it all came back to me, what I’d seen, and I shuddered. I tried to tell myself I’d imagined it. Maybe I’d overreacted to finding a homeless woman sleeping in the basement. Maybe she was sick and needed an ambulance. Oh god, maybe I’d left her to die.

There was more knocking, and I reached up to flick the light on. But when I did so nothing happened. I tried the lamp next to my bed, but again, nothing. Looking around I saw that none of my electronics seemed to be on. There must have been some sort of power cut. Again, someone knocked at the door. Maybe it was one of my neighbours… coming to check whether I’d lost power? So I shuffle over towards the door and… reached for the handle.

As I was about to open it I got a sudden chill and stopped. What if she was outside, waiting? I mean th-the worms that made a hive of her body, eager, striving to make me one as well. I thought of that awful case you had us looking into where that woman… burst into worms, and I realised that this woman must be that Jane Prentiss you were telling us about. I never had one of those peepholes added, so I couldn’t see what was out there, but as I took a step back I saw something on the floor, crawling out from underneath the door. It was a small, silver-looking worm.

I think I might have… lost my mind a bit, then. It all… feels very… strange, blurry. I-I remember stamping and stamping as-as more made their way under my doorway. I-I remember grabbing every towel, sock, bit of fabric scrap that I could find, stuffing them under the door, into the cracks around the window. Anything where a slender worm might crawl I made airtight. And then I sat there and waited. I-I still had no power, no phone, no way to communicate with the outside.

This went on for thirteen days. Every time I thought it might be safe to try and leave I’d hear that knocking at my door come back. Luckily there was no problem with my water supply, so I had plenty to drink. I’m just glad none of them thought to come up through the pipes. I eat a lot of… ready meals, cans, that kind of thing, so… I had food, although after the first few days I had to start rationing.

If I ever see another can of peaches… [shudders]

But… I-I think the worst part was the boredom. No internet, no phone, no power. I read the handful of print books I own several times. I-I didn’t really sleep. Every time I closed my eyes I’d start to feel something was crawling… up my legs and I’d have to sit up and check. Other times I’d be awoken by that knocking. I spent a lot of time trying to remember what you told me about Jane Prentiss when we were working on Tim Hodge’s statement, but… all I remembered were that she called herself to be a practising witch and was believed to be infected by a-a dangerous, unknown parasite.

She never talked to me. I-I could have heard her clearly through the door, but she never made a sound apart from that knocking. From what I saw, maybe what was in her throat didn’t leave room for a voice. Strangely, she never tried to break down my door, either. Just knocked. She knocked… and knocked… and knocked.

Finally, I woke up this morning and she was gone. I don’t know exactly how I knew. I-I think she brought that musty smell with her, and this morning I-I couldn’t smell it. And there was no knocking. I mean, it still took me about four hours of checking and double-checking and listening at the letterbox before I got the nerve to actually open the door, but when I did… there was no-one there. And I ran… all the way here.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

You’re sure about all of this, Martin?

MARTIN
Look, I’m not going to lie to you about something like this, John. I… like my job. Most of the time.

ARCHIVIST
Very well. In which case there’s a room in the Archives I use to sleep when working late. I suggest you stay there for now. I’ll talk to Elias about whether we can get extra security, but the Archives have enough locks for now. It’s also supposed to be humidity controlled and, though it hasn’t been working for some time, it does mean it’s well-sealed. Nothing will be sneaking through any window cracks.

MARTIN
[Confused & flustered] Okay… thanks. To be honest I didn’t, didn’t expect you… to take it seriously.

ARCHIVIST
You say you lost your phone two weeks ago?

MARTIN
Thereabouts. When I went back to the basement.

ARCHIVIST
Well, in that time I have received several text messages from your phone, saying you were ill with stomach problems. The last one said that you thought it “might be a parasite”, though my calls trying to follow up were never answered. So, if this does involve Jane Prentiss, then I take it deadly seri -

[PHONE BUZZES]
Hang on.

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
I just received another text message. From you. “Keep him. We have had our fun. He will want to see it when the Archivist’s crimson fate arrives.”

MARTIN
What does that mean?

ARCHIVIST
It means I ask Elias to hire some extra security. I should probably warn Sasha and Tim as well. I’ll also have a look through the Archives, as I believe we should have a statement from Ms. Prentiss herself in here somewhere.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Albrecht von Closen, regarding a discovered tomb near his estate in the Black Forest. Original statement given as part of a letter to Jonah Magnus, March 31st, 1816. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
My dearest Jonah,

Forgive my writing you this letter so soon after the last. You must think me dreadful for not even giving you a chance at a reply, but I recall that during your visit last spring you mentioned your fascination with the macabre and strange, and pressed upon me as to whether there were any such lore or legends that I myself were familiar with. Wolfgang writes me that you are acquiring quite the collection, and I feel that I now have something that belongs with it, far more than any of the fairy stories or old maids’ tales that I told you before. Put quite simply, I have had a most terrifying encounter. Two encounters, really, I suppose, and I pray to the Lord that I shall have no more. For I honestly believe I should die, from fear if not from violence, were I forced to meet the thing again.

I’m sure you must think me the most dreadful bore, speaking around the thing so, but I feel that to understand all I must begin my tale some time before the apparition itself appeared, with my travels down to Württemberg. My family has a small estate there, in the heart of the Schwarzwald, what you would call the Black Forest, near a small town by the name of Schramberg. This estate belonged to my brother, Henrik, and when he passed away it descended to my nephew Wilhelm. He was barely in his fourteenth year when Henrik died, and his mother had passed while birthing him, so myself and Clara have since made every effort to provide him with guidance and such affection as he may have lost. This felt especially keen, as we have ourselves been unable to conceive a child, and so we felt it our duty to teach Wilhelm what we would have impressed upon a son of our own. The profligacy of youth is always a danger, and we felt it our duty to help guide him, where we could, along the path of virtue. We needn’t have worried ourselves overly: I have never met so sober and prudent a soul as seems to exist within young Wilhelm. Nonetheless, because of this we have remained close with my nephew through the years, despite the distance. When he took ill this last winter, naturally we made arrangements to travel to his home in the Schwarzwald and offer what comfort we could.

The journey was difficult, as I suppose is to be expected when travelling in winter, but Wilhelm’s condition brooked no delays. At first, the worst we had to contend with, coming from Bavaria, was the lack of provision in the inns where we took lodging, as we were told over and over again how rare guests were this time of year. Still, say what you will about the German Confederation - and I know you certainly have a lot of opinions on that, my friend - but it has made travelling a lot quicker and I was certainly grateful for that. When we entered Württemberg, however, our way was much harder. The snow fell thicker in the Schwarzwald, compelling us at last to trade the coach for a sleigh.

You have never known winter in the Black Forest, have you? I know that you will say you have snows and forests in England, but I have seen what you call forests and can tell you that there can be no comparison to the Schwarzwald, its trees covered in a dense canopy of untouched snow. There is such a silence there as I have never encountered anywhere else on earth, with every sound seeming to die the moment it touches that soft white blanket of virgin snow. By day, it is the most beautiful serenity, this calm stillness. But by night, oh my friend, by night it becomes something altogether else. The quiet of the forest, it becomes like the world is holding its breath, waiting to strike, and in those parts where the canopy clears enough that the moon shines down, it casts everything into the most ghostly shades. I lost count of the number of times I swore I saw figures in the shadows, briefly illuminated by the moonlit glow of that frozen land. At one point I even demanded the sleigh be stopped so I could make an examination of the area with a brace of pistols, but of course I found nothing. It was in such a state of mind that we arrived at Wilhelm’s estate near Schramberg.

We were greeted by Wilhelm’s servants and told of their master’s condition. The doctor had, apparently, braved the roads from Schramberg some few days ago and had given what medicine he could. Since then, the servants told us, he had been steadily improving, but was still very weak. I will confess at this news to feeling slightly unnecessary, but upon entering Wilhelm’s chamber, the happiness evident upon his face when he saw Clara and myself put all such thoughts to rest.

Wilhelm was in recovery, but I had no intention of travelling back through that silent, icy stillness unless absolutely necessary, and Clara agreed. We made plans to winter there with Wilhelm. There was room enough for us, though our chamber was more modest than what we would have been accustomed to. I will admit that I didn’t entirely relish the though of staying in the Schwarzwald until the spring thaw, but of the courses of action we had at our disposal, it was the one I found to be the most agreeable.

And so began what was to be lengthy sojourn near Schramberg, and truly have I never wished more keenly that I had been able to bring my library with me. I had but a few books with me and Wilhelm, despite his not-inconsiderable intelligence, had even fewer. In the end, we played a lot of cribbage and listened to Clara play many a tune on the pianoforte. My wife has never had a singular voice, but her skills upon the keys more than make up for it. I myself would often take long walks through the surrounding woods during the early afternoon, when the cold was tolerable. Sometimes I would make my way the two miles to neighbouring Schramberg, but more often I would simply choose a direction and stroll into the trees for as long as my fancy held me and then simply follow my own trail of footprints back to what was, for the moment, my home.

It was on one of these walks, some months into our stay, that I came upon that ancient graveyard. It must have been sunken slightly into the ground itself, as all I could see of the grave markers themselves were the merest tip of worn and crumbled granite above the snow. I could not guess at the size of the place, as every few seconds, whichever way I walked, I would spot another small bud of memorial stone blossoming through the frosted earth. I dug some snow from in front of one of the headstones - it had a broken angel atop it, both wings snapped and fallen - but the inscription was far too worn to make out any of the words. I had all but made up my mind to leave, as I knew I had little over an hour before the light began to fail me. As I turned to do so, however, I spied something not far removed among the trees, far larger and more intriguing than the graves I had found thus far.

It stood about five feet proud above the snow, and the stone was far better quality than what I had seen so far. A small mausoleum. The door, once a sturdy iron grate, had long since rusted off of its hinges, leaving only a gaping black aperture that seemed to lead deeper than the dimensions of the mausoleum would allow. Over the top, barely readable, but still most definitely there, was the name ‘Johann von Württemberg’. I was fascinated - I knew my local history well enough and certainly was not aware of any noble of the Württemberg line named Johann. I was sure he had never been a count or a prince. More than that, there had never been, as far as I could recall, any town or settlement near this spot that could have supported a cemetery of such size. So who was Johann von Württemberg, and why had he built a mausoleum here, in the middle of the Schwarzwald, six miles or more from Schramberg?

I had no time to investigate any further, for I realised that I needed to leave immediately if I was to return to my wife and nephew before sundown. I turned away and followed my path back as quickly as I dared. While I would normally be satisfied forging a new path the next day, something in the thought of that silent tomb drew me back, and I found myself marking trees with my pocket knife, to make my finding my way back the following day that much easier.

I asked Wilhelm that evening over dinner whether he had ever heard of Johann von Württemberg, or was aware of the mausoleum a few north miles from his home. He told me no to both - he rarely spent time in the forest around save for hunting, and the hunting was usually poor in the north, as the trees were too close together to easily navigate with a horse. And he had never heard of this ‘Johann’. I made some inquiries as to where I could look further into the history of the area, but there was no library of a decent size within near distance of Schramberg, and as I mentioned, Wilhelm had little in the way of books, so I let the matter drop.

Nothing else of note occurred that night, and so, making my apologies the next morning, I headed out early towards the old cemetery. I made no secret of my destination, and even offered the opportunity to accompany me to both Wilhelm and Carla, but neither saw the trip as worth the cold hours it would take to reach. So it was alone that I once again made my way to that forgotten place. My marking the trees had proven unnecessary, as there had been no fresh snowfall the previous night, and my footprints from the day before were still clear and very easy to follow.

The mausoleum looked exactly as I had left it, its door still yawning, and the sunlight seemed to make it very little distance over the threshold before darkness once again swallowed it. I had foreseen this, and packed a lantern for the purpose of exploring the place. I was about to light it, when I noticed a figure watching me from the treeline. Perhaps this place was not so forgotten after all. I had heard tales of brigands using places such as this for assignations, and was suddenly glad I had also thought to pack a pistol and shot. I approached the man, but he didn’t move to flee. As I got closer, I saw him in more detail. He was short and squat, wearing an old-fashioned, black frock coat and knee breeches, though his head was shadowed by a wide-brimmed black hat. By his costume, I assumed him to be an old man, perhaps a groundskeeper for this place, or simply a recluse that lived nearby. When I greeted him, though, the voice that answered held no quiver of age within it. He asked me, in low, peasant German whether I was planning to explore the tomb. I said I was, and asked if he was the keeper of this place. He laughed at that, a sharp, guttural exclamation that surprised me, and told me that the crypt I sought was a dangerous place. I asked him what I had to fear from the dead, and he stared at me. I could not see his eyes beneath the brim of his hat, but I could still feel his gaze upon me. He laughed again, and told me, “No, sir, you have nothing to fear from the dead.”

At these words I began to back away, ensuring my hand was on my pistol, not taking my eyes off this strange man until I reached the edge of the mausoleum. Only then did I look down to make sure my lantern was where I left it, and when I returned my gaze to the trees, he was gone. To speak plainly, I was rather shaken by my encounter, and considered turning back and trying my luck another day, but something within me balked at having all my work and preparation be for naught because of a single farmer who couldn’t mind his business. I lit my lantern, and -

ARCHIVIST
Martin! Good lord man, if you’re going to be staying in the Archives, at least have the decency to put some trousers on!

MARTIN
Oh god, sorry, sorry! I didn’t think you were in until later; it’s not even seven yet.

ARCHIVIST
I’ve been coming in early in the hopes of leaving this place before dark.

MARTIN
It’s been a week and we’ve seen nothing. Do you really think she’s still out there?

ARCHIVIST
I have no idea, but I don’t intend to take any chances.

MARTIN
[SIGH] No, I suppose not…

ARCHIVIST
Now, if you’ll excuse me.

MARTIN
Righto.

ARCHIVIST
Statement continues.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
At first I was confused, inside appeared to empty. No monuments or coffins stood inside, and no plaques or sigils adorned the wall. Just a single slab of marble stood in the centre, like an altar. At first I thought that perhaps that was where the coffin should have sat, and someone had simply taken it, but as I walked around I saw what it was concealing. Behind the sharp-angled block was a staircase, descending deep into some unknown subterranean vault.

You will scoff at me, Jonah, when next we meet, I am sure of it. You will laugh at my bravado and call an unthinking adventurer, but the plain fact of it is that I descended those stairs with hardly a qualm. Any fear I may have had was solely focused on the man I had met outside, and I foresaw no danger within the vault itself. So I hoisted my lantern and I descended the stairs.

They were old, of that there is no doubt, but they were not worn, and I would wager that I was the first soul to go down there in at least a century. They descended for some time, until I was quite certain that I was deep within the frozen earth of the Schwarzwald. At last, the steps ended in a short corridor, and I could see the bricks that formed the walls and arched ceiling had crumbled and shifted in places, allowing ingress to the thick roots of the trees above, which coiled and splayed across those parts of the passage in most need of repair. After about a minute of walking, the passage opened out into a large chamber. In the centre stood another block of marble, almost identical to the one I had seen upstairs, but atop this one was a sealed, stone coffin. The name ‘Johann von Württemberg’ was carved here too, though preserved in much clearer detail without the elements to wear it away.

As I gazed at it, I noticed that the walls of the room did not appear to be stone, as the passage or the mausoleum had been. I walked cautiously closer, until my lantern illuminated it clearly. The walls were covered with bookshelves. Packed in with such a density that it was impossible to tell if there was a real wall behind them, or if the books themselves formed the only bulwark against the soil. They were, unfortunately, terribly rotten. The centuries had not been kind to them, and as I tried to move one of them, I realised that the damp had, over time, caused them to merge into a single mass of paper and bookcloth. Predictable as this may have been, I still felt the most acute pang of loss. To see such a volume of knowledge, possibly unique in all the world, utterly destroyed, was incredibly painful to me. The actual shelves were formed of the same marble as the two blocks, and seemed to have fared better. As I looked at them, I noticed a small engraving, carved at regular intervals along the edge of each one. It was a small eye, open and staring.

For some reason, it was only at that moment that I began to feel afraid. Of what, I couldn’t tell you, but those small eyes filled me with a dread that I have trouble describing to you now. Certainly I backed away from the bookshelves, and was all set to depart, when my lantern caught on something in the corner of the room. Or more precisely, two things: the first was a small gold coin that glinted on the floor. The second was a book, perhaps fallen from the shelves long ago. It was in far better condition than the others, perhaps due to where it had lain, and I was able to very carefully open it. I was disappointed to see that was not written in German, or even French or Latin, but appeared to be in Arabic. It seemed to be an illuminated manuscript of sorts, produced by hand and utterly beautiful, though I could not for the life of me have told you what it concerned.

I took the book and the coin to study later, and hastily left the vault, the lingering fear making me feel as though some unseen pursuer might come upon me if I hesitated. I drew my pistol as I left the mausoleum, just in case the strange short man from earlier were waiting to accost me, but there was no sign of anyone outside in that clear daylight.

I hurried back, though I still had many hours before dusk. As I went I noticed that the snow on the trees was beginning to thaw, and took comfort in the knowledge that Clara and myself would likely be able to return to Closen soon. Wilhelm was fully recovered from his fever, and by the time I was at dinner, all traces of my earlier fear had disappeared and I was in excellent spirits.

I retired afterwards to smoke a pipe or two and examine my finds at greater length. The book, though beautiful, stubbornly refused to offer up any clues to its contents. With your permission, I’ll bring it over for your expert eyes next time I have the pleasure of your company. The coin, on the other hand, was more interesting. On one side, it had an engraved profile of a sharp-faced young man with long, flowing hair. Over the top ran the letters JW, and at the bottom was the number 1279. If this was the date the coin was produced, then I don’t need to tell you how exciting a find this might be. The other side was blank, save for three words, very small and worn, but I could just about read them. They read “Für die Stille”.

I was about to retire to bed, when one of the serving girls, Hilda - or was it Helga, I forget - asked me for a moment of my time. I obliged and she said had I been asking about the old graveyard out in the forest? I told yes I had, and she paled ever so slightly. She told me that she never went near the place, that no-one in the town did.

You see, Jonah, apparently there was an old man in Schramberg by the name of Tobias Kohler. He had lived nearly eighty years, and told tales of when he was a child and he his friends would play a game they called “Johann’s Steps”. It was a game of bravery, where you had to creep down as many steps as you could into the tomb of Johann von Württemberg until you were seen, and then run back out as fast as you could. Tobias would never say who or what you were seen by, and always ignored the question. Well, apparently, the parents of these children found out about this game and one of them, the mother of Tobias’ friend Hans Winkler, decided to put an end it. She stormed into the cemetery and, seeing Hans entering the mausoleum for his turn, she ran inside after him and down the steps. None of the children saw what happened, but they all heard the scream. They fled back to town, and when they told of what had happened, the town priest, whose name Tobias does not remember, simply nodded and, gathering up six strong, though deeply fearful, men, they headed out toward the cemetery. None of that party ever spoke of what they saw or found there, but Hans went to live with the Becker family out on their small farm. No-one played “Johann’s Steps” again, and the cemetery was once again left deserted.

The only other thing Tobias remembered was that he had once heard a great uncle refer to Johann von Württemberg as “Ulrich’s bastard”, which, if the date on the coin was correct, may be referring to Ulrich I or Ulrich II, but either way that place’s history must stretch back almost six hundred years.

But now, I feel I have talked around it long enough. I could fill a dozen more pages with preamble and research, yet none of that is why I have written to you as I have. No, I am writing to you to describe what I saw the last night I stayed at Wilhelm’s, the event that led to my and Carla leaving a week earlier than we had planned.

It was three days after I had heard Tobias’ story that it happened. I had packed the coin and the book away in a fit of superstition and had decided to take a short stroll as the sun was setting. It was beautiful, the crimsons of the darkening sky danced upon what snow was left, staining it deepest red. I walked around the house, smoking my pipe, until I came upon the tracks I had left when heading towards the old graveyard. As the snow melted it had formed my footprints into packed dirt and ice that almost seemed to glow in the waning daylight. I gazed at them, and froze. I had made two trips to the mausoleum that winter, and sure enough there were two stark sets of footprints heading north. But coming back towards the house, there were three sets of footprints. I felt the presence behind me, and I turned around.

It was the man from the cemetery. His wide brimmed hat was removed and he stared at me. His head was completely bald, and his eyes were missing. They were just empty sockets but they stared at me. The saw me. Believe or dismiss anything else in my letter as you wish Jonah, but I swear to you that I stood face to face with a man with no eyes and he saw me.

I backed away too quickly and slipped, falling hard upon the ground. In a second he was above me, and he smiled. He said something to me, but my mind was aflame with panic and I didn’t hear what it was. He reached towards me slowly, insolently, as though he sought to savour this moment but would not be rushed. Then, quite without warning, he stopped. His head snapped up to stare at something, like a gundog that hears a shot. He stood there, hand poised as though in indecision. And then… And then, he vanished, as though he had never been there, and I simply lay upon the ground, winded and afraid.

Night had fallen by the time I finally pulled myself together enough to run back into the house and begin packing. I told Carla we had to leave as soon as possible, though was vague as to the reasons. I still haven’t told her why. How do you tell your wife something like that happened to you?

We took the first coach the following morning and haven’t stopped. I didn’t even realise the coin was missing until I checked my luggage later. Whether to a light-fingered servant or just my own carelessness, it is gone, so I must apologise that I will not be able to share that particular piece of history with you. I must also apologise for the handwriting; I have been committing this to paper as well as can be done on a long coach-journey. Still, I look forward to showing you the book I have acquired, and the revelations you will no doubt glean from it.

Yours in trust,

Albrecht

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Always a treat to find a piece of history tucked into the wrong section of the archive. Still, I can’t say I know much about Jonah Magnus or the origins of the Institute, so this is a rather pleasing discovery in some ways. Obviously there isn’t much follow-up to be done here, but to slake my own interest I have done a little bit of digging myself, which I include here for completeness sake.

I’ve only found one reference to any ‘Johann von Württemberg’ in any of the German history reference material we have available. Jan Moira’s Cradle of Germany - Württemberg through the Centuries mentions rumours that Ulrich I, Count of Württemberg had a second son out of wedlock in 1255. No name is listed, but certain enemies of the count were known to spread rumours that this exiled son was “keeping the company of witches”. 1279 was also the year that Ulrich I’s successor, Ulrich II, died. This may simply have been coincidence, however, as he was succeeded by his half-brother Eberhard I.

Something else I stumbled across, quite by accident, during my research was in Grim Tales, H.T. Moncreef’s exploration of unexplained and macabre deaths in early 19th century Europe. It mentions a death that took place in Schramberg in 1816. The man, one Rudolph Ziegler, was found dead at his home on the outskirts of town. What is interesting is that it says he worked in service on an estate nearby. Shortly after his death, one Wilhelm von Closen was investigated for the crime, as it was discovered the dead man had been stealing jewellery from the estate. It was eventually dropped, however, after four doctors attested that the ferocity of the wounds inflicted on Herr Ziegler were, and I quote, “beyond the capability of human violence”. It was ruled an animal attack.

I did try to find out what happened to Albrecht von Closen and his book, but I can find no mention of him in any volume of history, nor anywhere online. Perhaps I might find out more if I spent months sifting through the historical statements in the Archives’ back rooms, but I simply don’t have time to indulge my own curiosity like that.

I have located a genealogy for Wilhelm von Closen, though. He married and had children, and the family remained located in and around Schramberg for almost another century, before one branch emigrated to England in 1908. They had a daughter, Elsa, who went on to marry a man by the name of Michael Keay in 1920. In 1924, they had one daughter, whose name was Mary Keay. This may be simple coincidence, but… it concerns me.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Leanne Denikin, regarding an antique calliope organ she possessed briefly in August 2004. Original statement given January 17th, 2005. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Let me be clear: I’m not scared of clowns. I don’t find them funny, either. Just a bit baffling, really. I’ve never understood why people would find grown men in stupid make-up and wigs funny. Or scary. It’s the same with the dolls. People talk about their cold dead eyes, but they don’t seem to have any problem with statues. I suppose now I’ve got good reason to be scared of both. I just want you to understand, I wasn’t seeing things out of fear. This happened.

It didn’t come as a surprise when my grandfather died last August. I’d been living with him for almost two years at his home in Bootle, looking after him through his illness. My mother was having her own difficulties at the time, and my good-for-nothing father wanted nothing to do with any of it, so looking after my grandpa came down to me. It wasn’t so bad, really.

My grandpa was a strange man at times. He’d been a carnie for most of his life, working with travelling circuses and freak shows all over Europe, and was something of a recluse in his later years. He could also swear a blue streak a mile wide. Get him behind the keys of a piano, though, and I don’t know anyone who could play as beautifully as he could. Like I say, it wasn’t a surprise when he finally died, but I still found it difficult. As you may have guessed, I don’t have a great relationship with my parents, and have always had some problems making friends, so… when he went, it hit me hard.

I didn’t go out that week. Or the next. I saw Joshua, my… partner, I suppose you’d have called him, but aside from that, I didn’t see anybody between grandpa’s death and the funeral. It was just me, Josh and my mother. Grandpa had never been a churchgoer, but my mother had a lot of faith, so paid for a Methodist funeral, such as it was. It was a hot, muggy day, and I remember wondering whether the stinging in my eyes was from the tears or the sweat. As it turned out, grandpa had left me his house. It didn’t really sink in for a while - the house had been the most home I’d had for so long that I’d always felt it was mine in some ways.

Going through my grandpa’s old papers and possessions was harder than I had expected. It was only reading some of his own letters that I discovered his birth name was Nikolai - he’d always just gone by Nick. Eventually I sorted through everything. I had a small box of memories I wanted to keep, but… I just wasn’t up throwing the rest away yet. I decided to store them in the loft. I knew the house had one, although I had never been inside. It had always been locked. It wasn’t a mystery or anything, just that my grandpa hadn’t needed to get anything from up there while I was living with him. At least, I thought so.

It was only then I realised I had never been inside it. More annoyingly, I quickly discovered that none of the keys I’d been given for the place were for the padlock. No luck searching for it around the rest of the house, either. In the end I had to cut the lock off with a pair of bolt cutters I found in the garage.

There was also a ladder in the garage, so getting up through the small, square hole wasn’t a problem. I realised then that I didn’t have a torch, and it was very dark. Despite it being the middle of summer, the loft was cool, almost cold. I considered heading back down to get a torch and a jacket, but as I reached out my hand, it brushed against something which felt like a pull-cord. I gave it a tug, and a small, weak bulb came to life, and I saw what was inside.

When I had first remembered about the loft, I’d been annoyed. I thought there’d be so much more stuff up there, days more sorting to go through. But when I turned on the light, I saw that it was almost completely empty. The only things there were an old steamer trunk, a small stool and a bright red calliope organ. The ceiling was higher than I expected as well. I could stand at my full height without stooping.

I walked slowly towards the old steam organ. It was bright red, and in excellent condition, except for a thick layer of dust. There was a small brass plaque simply reading “The Calliaphone”. The brass pipes that stuck out from the top still shone faintly under the dust, and I noticed that there was writing, carved onto the cover of the keyboard. It read: “Be still, for there is strange music”.

I went to the steamer trunk next, and was surprised to find it unlocked. Opening it released a cloud of dust and I coughed a few times before I got the heavy lid up. Inside were dolls. Lots of them. They looked old, with ragged, limp cloth bodies topped with oversized round heads and large, painted eyes that stared up from their shadowed trunk. The hair on each was intricate and woollen, and while they certainly weren’t the sort of dolls a ventriloquist would use, the heads had similar mouths, wooden blocks that would have opened and closed to simulate speech. At least, they should have had. Almost all of them had had their jaw block roughly torn off, leaving nothing but jagged splinters between their cheeks.

There were 23 dolls I counted in total, and only one of them still had its jaw intact. It was the oldest-looking by far, and was a small clown doll. Its threadbare body was white and purple polka-dot, with three pompoms down the front, and a ruff just below the head. It had no woollen hair left, but instead had a tall, pointed white cap on top. Its face was painted a pure white, and its eyes were shut, with black lines drawn across them. The only colour was a splash of red across the hinged jaw. A smile.

Like I said, I’m not scared of clowns, and I’m not scared of dolls. The thing was ugly, though. I was kind of relieved, actually, to have found some of my grandpa’s old things that I would have no problem throwing away. Or maybe selling. They were definitely antiques, so they might have been worth something. In any case, I put the nasty-looking clown doll back in the box and closed the lid. I definitely closed the lid.

[DOOR OPENS]
I went back over to the calliope. There was-

SASHA
I thought it was pronounced “Ka-lee-o-pee?”

ARCHIVIST
Sasha? You’re… back early - I thought you were trying to get hold of those police reports for the Harold Silvana case?

SASHA
Tried and succeeded. They were actually quite helpful.

ARCHIVIST
Oh… well. Good work.

SASHA
So, do we know if it’s pronounced “Ka-lee-o-pee” or “Kuh-ly-o-pee”?

ARCHIVIST
I have also heard it said as “Ka-lee-ope”.

SASHA
Seriously? By who?

ARCHIVIST
Americans.

SASHA
Ah.

ARCHIVIST
As far as I can tell there isn’t a “correct” pronunciation. But they were originally named after the Greek muse Calliope, so…

SASHA
Are people going to understand that it’s from Greek mythology?

ARCHIVIST
If they’re working for the Magnus Institute, then I would hope so.

SASHA
I’ve just heard it more often as “ka-lee-o-pee”.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Statement continues.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I went back to the calliope. There was no lock on the lid, or any switch that I could see on the outside. I opened it, and the keys inside shone as though they had just been polished. Now, at the time I didn’t know how a calliope worked. I just thought it was like a weird pipe piano. I didn’t know that there needed to be a blower working for the thing to play, and even if I had, I wouldn’t have known where to find one or how to use it. By rights, when I sat in front of it and pressed the first key down, nothing should have happened. The four tall rows of brass whistles should have remained silent. Instead, there came a loud, howling tone from one of the pipes and I almost fell off my seat in surprise. I remember once, hearing the sound of a steam organ could be heard from over a mile away, and when that shrill whistle sounded I could believe it.

I started to play a tune. My grandpa had had a piano once. It had broken years before and he’d never had the money to replace it, but he had taught me the basics. There was one tune that, when I was a child, I always insisted he play to me. He never told me its name, if it even had one. I always used to just call “Faster Faster”, by way of a description. A cheery, upbeat circus melody that started out almost unbearably slow and gathered in tempo, getting faster and faster until my grandpa’s fingers were a blur. He always indulged me when I asked him to play it, and now I played it for him. The wailing whistles were almost deafening in that cramped space. I knew I’d probably be hearing from the neighbours about it, but I didn’t care. I just played.

The tune got faster, more frantic, and I felt something building inside me. It was like final closure for the loss of my grandpa was just out of reach, and if I got faster, if I played with enough speed I could catch it. But my finger slipped, and the music abruptly became a discordant cacophony. I never was as good as Grandpa Nick. I sat there in silence for a minute. When I turned to leave, though, I saw that the old steamer trunk was open, and the clown doll lay on top of the pile. Even though its painted eyes were still shut, I felt like it was looking at me. Its smile seemed slightly wider than before. I shut the trunk and climbed down the ladder.

I didn’t really think about the weird things in the loft over the next week or so. I had too much else to do. It was only when Josh was next round, and asked me why the small hole into the attic was open, that I remembered. I told him I had something cool to show him, and got the ladder out. He was suitably impressed by the calliope, but freaked out a bit over the dolls. I didn’t realise he was scared of them. He made me shut the steamer trunk almost as soon as he saw them, and kept looking over to make sure it was closed. I decided not to tell him about the first time it had popped open.

He asked if I could play anything on the ancient steam organ, and so I sat down and began to play my grandpa’s old circus tune. Again I began to pick up speed, to play faster and faster as the whistles began to shriek. I felt a hand touch mine firmly, abruptly stopping the music. Josh stood there, shaking slightly, his face deathly pale. On impulse I looked over to the chest of dolls, but the lid was firmly shut. I asked him what was wrong and he said he didn’t know. He just wanted to leave. Now. So we did. Climbed back down out of the loft, and I lowered the wooden trapdoor behind us.

The next few weeks were… unpleasant. I don’t want to go into detail. Let’s just say I discovered that Josh was just another asshole after all. Our relationship was already going through a rocky patch. It didn’t help that in those last weeks he became moody, short-tempered, constantly on edge. When I finally found out that he had… It doesn’t matter. We broke up. It left me pretty much destroyed, coming so soon after my grandpa’s death. I just tuned everything out again.

Eventually, it was tripping over a box that did it. One of the ones I’d put all my grandpa’s stuff into, and never actually got round to putting in the loft. I decided to just get it over with. I guess I hoped a tidier house would give me more space to think. So, for the third time, I got out that ladder and climbed into the loft. It didn’t take as long to store all the boxes as I’d thought, and within an hour I was done. I had been so intent on packing away all my memories that I hadn’t even looked at the old steamer trunk. As I went to climb down I glanced over, and I froze.

The lid was open again, and the clown doll was on top. It wasn’t looking at me this time. Instead, it seemed to be facing a doll I hadn’t seen before. This one still had its jaw as well, and I swear it looked just like Josh. Same tatty brown jacket, same old jeans. Its black, woollen hair even did that flicky thing he always spent so long getting right. It was lying against the side of the box, and I swear it looked like the clown was reaching for it. I slammed the box lid down and got the hell out of there. I bought a padlock the next day.

Now, I’ve brought a copy of the police report I gave, because you have to believe me that I did not play that calliope again. I had nothing to do with what happened to Josh. I came home from the cinema about a week later to find that my grandpa - my house had been broken into. Here, it’s all in the report on the burglary I gave to the police. The front door lock was shattered and it swung gently to and fro. At first I ran into my living room, my bedroom, but nothing had been taken. The electronics, my jewellery, it was untouched. I felt my stomach drop as I realised, and ran towards the loft. Sure enough, it was open, the padlock torn from its hook. The calliope and the steamer trunk were gone.

They questioned my neighbours about it. None of them had seen anything, except for Mrs. Harlow next door, who said she noticed two people taking out pieces of red sheet metal and brass pipes. She didn’t remember any details, just said that they “looked legitimate” and she thought I was having some things moved. The police never found them.

I just need you to believe that. To know I didn’t play the thing again. It wasn’t my fault, what happened to Josh. God knows I hated him enough back then, but… I could never called anything like that upon him. Not like that. I don’t suppose you need me to tell you how they found him. Four days later, dead in his room. His throat was crushed. And his jaw was torn clean off. The police never found it.

I wouldn’t have thought of it, really. Wouldn’t have… put it all together even then. Not if it hadn’t been for the fact that, in the last days of our relationship, Josh had broken down. He told me that he still heard that calliope music. Far off, when he was alone. And it had been getting gradually closer. I mean, they say you can hear one from almost a mile away.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

While I have what I would consider to be some natural reservations about a tale of murderous clown dolls, there are a few things that make me more inclined than usual to believe this statement. Firstly, as Ms. Denikin mentioned, she did provide a copy of the official police report into the burglary, which includes testimony from one Irene Harlow that appears to confirm Ms. Denikin did possess both a steamer trunk and calliope organ, so those at least existed.

The death of Joshua Drury is also at least as mysterious as she made it sound. In addition to his jaw being torn clean off his skull, residual evidence indicates that his throat was crushed with some sort of rope, apparently woven out of thick wool. There was no evidence of a struggle or of forced entry, no DNA evidence of anyone in the room aside from himself. No-one was ever arrested for the crime.

When discussing this case, Tim said it reminded him of some articles he’d read on travelling circuses in Russia and Poland during the early 20th century. On a whim, I hunted down a few of the volumes he mentioned in the Institute’s library, and sure enough, on page 43 of Gregory Petry’s Freaks and Followers: Circuses in the 1940s, I found a reproduction of an old black-and-white photograph. It shows a small group of carnival workers: a contortionist, a fire-eater, two strong-men, a ringmaster and a organist sitting behind a calliope.

The photograph is labelled as being from 1948 and taken in Minsk, Russia. Only the ringmaster and organist are named: Gregor Osinov and Nikolai Denikin. The name of the troupe was Цирк другого [[Tsirk druh-grova]] - the Circus of the Other. The name rings a bell, but I can’t find any other reference to it.

Ms. Denikin emigrated to South-East Asia two years ago, so was unavailable for any follow-up, but I’m sure there must be more on this somewhere in the Archives. Because I know for a fact that sitting in the Magnus Institute’s Artefact Storage, is a bright red Calliaphone steam organ.

When I asked Elias, he just told me that the record of its acquisition was “probably in the archive somewhere,” and no-one else knows anything beyond the fact that it was acquired somewhere in 2007. The keyboard cover is firmly locked, and scratched into the surface are the words: “Be still, for there is strange music”.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Mark Bilham, regarding events culminating in his visit to Hither Green Chapel. Original statement given April 19th, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Let’s get one thing straight right now. I don’t think I should be here. What happened was really weird and I’m pretty sure it was illegal, but it can’t have been actually supernatural. Like ghosts and stuff. That’s not real. No offence, I guess. I’m just here because I told Kathy what happened, and she insisted that I tell your Institute. She’s more open to that kind of thing than me. Maybe that’s why she chose to live with Natalie.

Sorry, I should start at the beginning. Kathy’s my girlfriend. Katherine Harper. We’ve been dating about a year and a half now. She graduated last year but I’m doing a medical degree, so I’m not leaving London for another couple of years. She managed to get a job as a trainee teacher up in East Ham, so ended up staying as well. I’ve got to say I’m glad about it. I’m not sure how good I’d be at a long-distance relationship. Anyway, the original plan was to move in together sooner, but stuff didn’t match up properly and this was before she got the job, so she had to move back with her parents for a while. Long story short, I had to get a houseshare with some other med students, and she came up later, moving in with Natalie Ennis.

I don’t know where Kathy met her. They’ve always been friends, but I don’t think she was at uni with us. She never talked about it if she was. Kathy grew up in London, so maybe they were friends from school or something. She seemed nice, when I met her. Quiet, but nice. She was very serious, though. I don’t know if I ever actually heard her laugh. Maybe she just didn’t find my jokes funny. Who knows? She was religious, too. I’ve never had much time for God, myself, and Kathy didn’t either. That’s why I was kind of surprised the first time I visited her new place and found a framed Bible quote on the wall. Can’t remember what it was. Something about Jesus and faith, I don’t really know Bible stuff. Kathy said it was Natalie’s. She didn’t mind her putting it up there in the living room. Kathy’s nice like that, you know? Just letting people be themselves.

Me and Natalie… didn’t get on. I don’t know if you picked up on that. We didn’t hate each other or anything like that, we just… didn’t have anything in common. She didn’t really watch TV or movies, and I didn’t know anything about crochet, politics or God, which were pretty much her only interests. Kathy was always trying to get her to come out with us, and she’d just say no, which was fine by me. She always seemed happy enough, though, hooking yarn into whatever she was making at the time, reading some boring book on the political history of the bonnet or something.

That changed last October, when Natalie’s mum died. I don’t know how it happened, exactly. Heart failure, I think. It was sudden, I know that much, and it hit her hard. I mean, obviously it did, it was her mum, but I think… I think she lost her faith. The Bible quote wasn’t on the wall the next time I went over, and when I asked Kathy about it, she gave me a look like I shouldn’t bring it up. I didn’t see much of Natalie after that. She was still around, I’d sometimes see her heading into the kitchen to get some food or tea or something, but apart from that she just stayed in her room.

So far, so normal, right? You lose your mum and it messes you up. That month was sad, but it’s not what Kathy wanted us to talk to you about. No, it was what happened afterwards. It was after Natalie found her new church. It was Kathy who told me about it. This must have been about two months after Natalie’s mum died. I must have asked how she was doing, if she was feeling any better. Kathy said that, yeah she was. Apparently, she’d found a new congregation and seemed to be getting some comfort there. She hadn’t been crying so much at night, Kathy said, and hadn’t been quite as prickly when she tried to talk. I noticed that the Bible quote hadn’t gone back up, though.

I thought if she was doing better I’d probably see Natalie around more when I stayed with Kathy, but if anything she seemed to almost completely disappear. She never seemed to be there when I went over. I’d see her leave in the evening and come home early in the morning, just as the sky was starting to get light. She’d go straight into her room, ignoring us completely. When I asked her where she’d been one time, she just told me “church”. I asked her a few more questions, but she stared at me in this weird way until I got freaked out and left the room. I joked with Kathy that her flatmate was turning into a vampire, but instead of laughing she just got defensive and said that Natalie couldn’t be a vampire. Then she started listing times she’d seen her in the sunlight, before just kind of trailing off. I think we both realised how messed up it was if she could list the number of times she’d seen Natalie in daylight.

Other strange stuff began to happen around the flat as well. The light bulbs kept blowing, to begin with. Well, that’s not entirely true. It always seemed to be that when we got in after dark, we’d try to turn on the lights and, well, nothing would happen. At first, we just threw the old bulbs out and replaced them, but it kept happening. We checked the fuses, the sockets, Kathy even called the landlord to have someone check out the wiring, but it all seemed fine. The lights kept not working, though. Then I had a thought. The next time it happened, instead of changing the light bulb, I just tightened it. Just like that, it turned back on. The first time this happened, I was so surprised I nearly fell off the chair I was stood on. The bulbs hadn’t been breaking, someone had been unscrewing them. Not much, not enough that we could spot it, just enough for them to not work. I say ‘someone’ had been doing this, but there was only one person it could have been. For some reason, Natalie had been unscrewing all the lightbulbs in the flat, every chance she got.

That was also when Kathy started to look so tired. She kept nodding off when we went out for dinner and would often zone out when we were watching TV. I asked her about it, but she just brushed it off and said she hadn’t been sleeping well. It wasn’t until she was so tired she almost walked out in front of a car while she was crossing the road that I finally got her to tell me what was going on. She said that Natalie had started staying home at nights, but she was so loud that it stopped her sleeping. Natalie would wander through the living room and sing, in a language Kathy didn’t know, and the tune was so discordant that it set her teeth on edge. Natalie would stop singing if she came into the living room, but would then just move to her room and the song would start again.

Kathy even said that when Natalie did leave, always at night, there would still be the sound of movement from her room. Shuffling, thumping noises, and occasionally the sound of something being knocked onto the floor. She’d come close to opening the door so often, but could never bring herself to do so. It seemed to be louder when she was trying to sleep, and once she thought it had moved into the living room, but she didn’t go out to check. So no, Kathy wasn’t getting much sleep. She started staying over with me a lot, as she said she just couldn’t handle living alone with Natalie.

One night, she arrived at my house almost in tears. I took her up to my room, and sat her on the bed. She stared at me for a few seconds and I was about to ask what was wrong, when she started to speak. She said that Natalie had tried to ‘convert’ her. She had come to Kathy’s room earlier that night, knocked on the door, very polite. She’d seemed cheerier than she had since her mum’s death, and asked if Kathy wanted to have some dinner and talk. Now, obviously, Kathy had wanted to discuss moving out for months, but she’d never been in a fit state, so she jumped at the chance.

The dining room was dark. Natalie must have unscrewed the lightbulb again because the switch did nothing. Thin slivers of moonlight coming through the curtains gave just enough light to see the table, and two bowls at either end. Natalie sat at one end, and waved for Kathy to sit at the other. Kathy had wanted to run… but didn’t know quite how to do so. She said it would have felt… rude. So she sat down, and tried to eat what Natalie had prepared. She thought it might have been spinach, but if so it must have been boiled for far too long and all that remained was a stringy, limp mush. It was stone cold, and she could barely get through two forkfuls before she started to retch; it was so slimy. She pushed it away as gently as she could. She said Natalie just watched, not even glancing at her own bowl.

Finally, Kathy managed to get the nerve to speak, and told her she wanted to move out. There was silence for a long second, and then Natalie had said she did as well. I’ll admit I sighed with relief when Kathy said that, but she shook her head and continued. Natalie had begun to speak, longer and in more detail than she had for a long time. She had said that she needed to move out, that the she had a new home to being going to, a new family. She said that they were all going, that 300 years was a long time to wait, but she was lucky to have found it so close to the end. She said that it wasn’t long until they were collected by Mr. Pitch. She said that Kathy could come too, if she liked. She could be saved.

It was at this point Kathy realised Natalie was talking about her ‘church’. She became… very scared, and stood up, telling Natalie thanks, but she wasn’t really one for Christian worship. And Natalie laughed at this. Laughed long and hard, never breaking eye contact. She had said, “No, but you’re a natural for Them. You’re worshipping as we speak.” It was at that point Kathy ran, and came over to my house. Natalie hadn’t tried to stop her.

At this point I was angry as all hell. If Natalie wanted to join some weird cult, and by that point we were both sure that’s what it was, then that was her business, but she was scaring Kathy. There was no way I was going to let that stand. I told her that I was going over to her flat and was going to have it out with Natalie. I don’t know what I was going to do. I mean, I wasn’t going to hit her or anything; I just needed to make it clear that you couldn’t just screw with people’s lives like this. Kathy told me not to go, but she wasn’t in any fit state to stop me. I got in the car and started to drive.

It was an overcast night, and without the moon the streets were dark. The lamps on the road seemed… dull, and even my headlights didn’t reach as far as I thought they should. It wasn’t far to the small house. I didn’t expect any lights to be on, but the silent darkness of the place still sent a shivers down my spine. I had a key to the door, and let myself in. I’d taken a torch from my car, and sure enough, the lights weren’t turning on. The hallway was silent, but my nerves were on edge, and I started to look through each room in turn. Nothing. There was no sign of Natalie at all.

I stood there, in front of her room. It just had a normal, wooden fire door, but my hand still hesitated as I reached to open it. I knew it was empty, by now I was sure she wasn’t home. Still, I was starting to feel that fear that Kathy had described, and I saw that my hand was shaking. I tried to ignore it, grit my teeth, and I opened the door.

The room inside was empty, as I had thought. But it wasn’t just that Natalie was out; it was completely bare. No furniture, no possessions, nothing. The carpet had been torn up, leaving the bare floorboards exposed and the wallpaper had been stripped from the wall. All of it had been stuffed and nailed up against the room’s only window, leaving it completely covered. No light from outside got through, and the torch was the only reason I could see at all. I started to look around for any clue to what Natalie had been doing, or where she had been.

In the corner, half-slipped between the boards, I spotted a piece of paper. It was small and thick, and seemed to have something written on it. Picking it up, I saw it had three words on it: Hither Green Dissenters. The other side had a symbol of some kind, written in thick marker pen: a curved line, with four straight lines coming off one side of it. Like a closed eye. I kept the paper, and your Institute can have it if you want. It’s not like the police were interested in it.

I called Kathy to tell her what I’d found. She was worried about me, but also about Natalie. Whatever this weird church was that she’d joined, I think we both reckoned it might be bad for her. Really bad. Kathy wanted to phone the police, but I told her there just wasn’t enough for it to be a crime. Not yet. I told her I’d keep looking. I might have lied, to be honest, and said I was just going to look around the house more, but… well, I did a search for Hither Green Dissenters and it looked like there was an old abandoned chapel, the Hither Green Dissenters Chapel, in a graveyard near Lewisham. I had decided that I needed to check it out. No idea what I was hoping to find. Enough to call the police in, I guess.

By now it was just past midnight; the drive down wasn’t too difficult. There was still that thickness to the night, a heavy gloom that deadened all light. Like someone had turned the brightness down on London. I found a parking spot not too far away from Hither Green Cemetery, and started to walk towards it. The iron gates stood wide open, so I went in.

The graveyard itself wasn’t as bad as I’d feared. If anything it felt quite peaceful. The darkness seemed right for it, and the stones stood silent and firm. I walked along the path, until my light fell across a small building. The chapel. It was tiny, surrounded by temporary fencing that looked like it had been there long enough to become permanent. It had a single, pointed bell tower, and the windows were covered with old boards that looked like they’d seen the worst of the rain. There was only a single entrance, a pair of double doors set at the front. To my surprise, they stood open. I called out Natalie’s name, shouted and asked if anyone was in there, but there was only silence.

I shouldn’t have gone in. Of course I shouldn’t have gone in. I’m not that stupid. I’ve never been that stupid. But for some reason, standing there in that dark, empty cemetery, I made the decision to look inside.

It was easy to squeeze past the barriers. I still had my torch with me, but it didn’t shine very far in. I entered slowly, casting my light over everything, just in case there were some hooded cultist freaks waiting to jump me, but there were only old, broken pews, discarded bottles and cigarette ends. The normal detritus any abandoned building collects. I was just about to turn around and leave… when my torch died.

Immediately I was plunged into complete darkness. No light was coming in through the door. I couldn’t even see where the door was, everything around me was pitch black. I tried to get the torch to turn back on, turning the bulb and hitting it in a near panic. I tried to take the batteries out and put them back in, but I couldn’t see anything, and I ended up fumbling and dropping them. I knelt down and tried to feel where they were, but the ground felt… odd. I hadn’t paid much attention to it when I first came in, but the floor had been chipped, dusty and covered with a layer of junk. But… when I started to feel around for the batteries, it felt smooth and clean and very cold, like marble or something.

I called out for help, but my voice just echoed in the silence. Then the singing started. It seemed like there were dozens of voices, but they didn’t match together right. Some were singing really high and others so low it made my teeth hurt. The words were in some other language, but I remember they kept coming together for the words “Nee-allisand” or “allisunt”, I think. I was freaking out, so I got to my feet and started to walk forward as fast as I was able, my hands stretched out in front of me in case I hit anything. The chapel couldn’t have been more than thirty feet long, and maybe twenty wide, but I walked for well over a minute without hitting anything. I just staggered through the complete darkness, with that awful singing everywhere. At one point I honestly thought I might have died and gone to hell.

Finally, my fingers brushed against something. It was cold, like the floor, but rough. It felt like rusted metal. Thin strips of rusted metal in a criss-cross pattern, with small gaps between them. At least, that’s what it felt like. I didn’t hold on to them for very long, because as my hands rested there, I felt… fingers reach through the holes and try to grab me. I couldn’t see them, but they felt leathery as they brushed against my skin.

I screamed and leapt back, falling to the floor, and as I did so I felt something hard jab me in the hip. My phone. In all that had happened I had forgotten I had it. I reached in and pressed the button and the screen lit up, faint and barely visible, but I started crying like it was the first light I had seen in months. It didn’t light up anything else, but as the singing began to crescendo I desperately went to the torch function and turned it on. And it did turn on, in a sudden flash of brilliance, and the singing stopped.

In the silence I shone the makeshift torch in front of me and saw a broken pew. The floor was once again covered in junk and I could see the doorway behind me, leading out into the night. I ran, calling Kathy first, and then the police.

They didn’t find anything, of course. They gave me a telling off about trespassing and took down a missing person report about Natalie. Nothing was found, and as far as I know she’s still gone. I didn’t tell Kathy exactly what happened for a few weeks, but when I finally did, she made me come here and talk to you

I think that’s everything. Can I go now?

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

The last section, naturally, is the one that invites my scepticism, but let us disregard that for now and discuss the other aspects. Sasha has confirmed that Natalie Ennis was reported missing by Mr. Bilham on March the 11th, 2015. There were no leads regarding her location beyond the piece of paper mentioned in the statement, and no traces of any church or cult was found within the Hither Green Dissenters Chapel, or the graveyard surrounding it. When we contacted Mr. Bilham and Ms. Harper to follow up, neither of them had heard from her in the intervening year, nor did they have anything to add to the statement.

The symbol upon the piece of paper does indeed resemble a stylised, closed eye, and there are enough other parallels to statement 0020312 to make me suspect - and a suspicion is all that it is at present - that the People’s Church of the Divine Host may still be in existence. Also of note, the words “Ny Alesund”. I don’t know for sure if Mr. Bilham remembered them correctly, but Tim pointed out that Ny-Ålesund is actually a small town in Norway. In fact, except for research installations, it is the most northerly human settlement on Earth, located at a latitude of North 78°55′30″. It is a company town, owned and operated by Outer Bay, but what it has to do with Mr. Bilham’s account is anyone’s guess. Assuming it isn’t all… coincidence. That far north… during the winter… nights can last for a very long time

Martin found one other thing while combing through police reports for the Hither Green area. About a month after this statement was given, on May 15th, 2015, police were called out to once again investigate the chapel. Neighbours had apparently heard screams from inside, just after 11pm, but when officers arrived they found nothing to indicate any sort of incident or foul play. I’d be content enough to ignore this… if it wasn’t for the fact that, according to the official file, May 15th, 2015 was day Gertrude Robinson, my predecessor, passed away.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Are you sure you’re all right to do this now? You can take a few days off to recover if you need.

SASHA
No, it’s fine. Tim’s getting me a coffee, and I’d rather get this down while it’s still fresh in my mind. Besides, you didn’t give Martin any time off when he had a bad experience.

ARCHIVIST
Martin had to start living in the archives. I mean, I could hardly give him a holiday in the office. Anyway, he wasn’t injured.

SASHA
It’s just a scratch, John. I’ll be fine. Can we begin?

ARCHIVIST
Okay. Statement of Sasha James, assistant archivist at the Magnus Institute, London, regarding…

SASHA
Let’s just call it ‘a series of paranormal sightings’.

ARCHIVIST
Statement recorded direct from subject, 2nd of April, 2016.

SASHA
Right. Well, I’m sure you know I was sceptical about how dangerous this Jane Prentiss was when you first suggested Martin stay in the archive. I mean, it’s not that I didn’t believe him about what happened, it just seemed… Well, Martin is a great researcher, but his self-preservation instincts are not the strongest, and to be frank I thought that if this Prentiss were a danger everyone seemed to think, then he’d almost certainly be dead.

Don’t get me wrong, I mean, I’ve read the same statements and profiles as you, so I know how many people have died because of her. What was it, six hospital staff when she was first admitted?

ARCHIVIST
Six from colonisation and a seventh… with a broken neck from her escape.

SASHA
But that was two years ago, and whatever she is now, it sounds like her condition is degenerating. I just wasn’t sure how much damage she’d still be capable of. So I guess… I didn’t take as much care as I should have when I was coming into the Institute yesterday. The thing is, I’m still not sure how much of a threat she is. I’ve seen plenty of those silver worm things squirming about outside, same as you, and made a point to step on them every time. What happened just made things more… complicated, I guess. I’m not really sure what to think.

I’ll start with the first thing I noticed. I live up near Finsbury Park, and my building is old. Victorian, I think, and though it’s been repaired and maintained quite well, it’s got all sorts of strange little quirks. One of these is the windows. The actual windows in the flats are fine, but the stairwells they have slightly warped glass, where the window have those little bubbles. Looking down on the street below can be a bit strange, as the glass bends the light and distorts whatever’s below it. I never really paid much attention to it until a few days ago, but it’s not a new thing.

It was the day before yesterday when I first saw it. When I’m heading down the stairs in the morning, I sometime like to spend a few seconds looking out of the window at the people on the street below. I’ll move my head so that I see them through the warped glass, and they’ll distort like a funhouse mirror. It’s a bit daft, but I have a pretty dreary commute down to Victoria, so I take my fun where I can get it. Well, on that morning I paused before the window, and noticed one of the warped figures below was… off, slightly. It looked too tall, the limbs and body were very thin and almost wavy, like they didn’t have any structure or bones in them. I couldn’t make out a face, but it was the hands that were the most bizarre. They seemed to be stretched and inflated by the distorted light, until they were almost the size of the rest of the torso. The fingers were long and stiff, and seemed to end in sharp points. It stood completely motionless, and I could feel it staring at me.

Moving my head to the side, I saw that the actual person I had been looking at was a large man with long, blond hair. He was neither stood still nor facing me, instead moving around the display of the flower shop opposite my building. Nothing about the guy seemed especially out of place, but I made a mental note to keep a lookout for him. I checked again through the bubble of bended glass and again I saw that tall figure with its limp arms and huge hands.

Now, you know me John, I’m, I’m not exactly the bravest person in the world. I generally avoid horror and I tend to stay off rollercoasters in the rare situation I have a chance to ride them. So I was as surprised as anyone that this undeniably sinister figure wasn’t causing me more distress. I mean, I was a bit nervous, sure. I’ve never had any direct experience with the supernatural before and the more I looked and checked and double-checked, the more sure I was that supernatural was exactly what it was. To be honest, I was surprised how quickly I accepted that. I’ve always considered myself a bit of a sceptic, and until recently I’d have said working at the Institute only made me more so.

Anyway, I watched it for about ten minutes, until the blond man bought a small bunch of lilies and walked away. Once he was gone, the distorted figure with the long hands disappeared as well. I headed down into the street and over to the flower shop. The woman working there gave me a bit of a confused look when I asked if there had just been a tall, blond man in her shop. She said yes there had, and no, she hadn’t noticed anything strange, and was I looking to buy some flowers. I was quite confused myself, and on a bit of an edge when I left. I was already late for work, though, so I decided to ignore it and just keep an eye out.

Sure enough, it wasn’t too long before I saw him again. There’s a small café I generally pop into when I head to work in the morning. I love the Institute’s building, of course, it’s beautiful, but from a money point of view, I really wish it wasn’t in Chelsea. Everything around here is so expensive. I generally walk down from Victoria Station. It’s a long walk, but quite pretty, and it gives me a chance to pick up a coffee on the way. As I said, I was running late that morning, so I was a bit conflicted about whether to get one, but as I looked in the window I saw a familiar figure at one of the corner tables. Again, the blond guy wasn’t looking in my direction, nor did he seem to give any indication that he was aware of my existence. He was there, though, and I was on the verge of walking in and confronting him when I noticed the time and decided getting to work was more important. Besides, what’s that old saying? “Once is happenstance, twice is coincidence, three times is enemy action”. I decided that if he turned up a third time, then I would ask him… something. I don’t really know what I was planning to ask him. “Are you secretly a monster?” probably would have been a great opener.

When I got here, I realised I needn’t have worried so much about the time. You were having some argument with Tim about… um, oh, who’s that architect he’s obsessed with?

ARCHIVIST
Robert Smirke.

SASHA
Yeah, that’s the one. So, I was starting to regret not getting a coffee and talking to tall, blond and monster, since it didn’t seem like I’d have missed much. I got on with my work, did some filing, cross-checked a few statements with police incident reports. I mean, I guess I don’t need to tell you what a day working in the archives entails. It was a quiet day, aside from when Martin thought he saw one of those silver worms and we spent half an hour checking for it.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. I remember.

SASHA
Come on, it’s not his fault he’s being stalked by some weird living hive.

ARCHIVIST
I know, but it would have to have been Martin, wouldn’t it? I mean, anything goes wrong around here, it always seems to happen to him. Anyway, we’re getting off topic. Why didn’t you report this?

SASHA
Seriously? If a member of the public came in, you would have torn that statement to shreds. No, I, I figured I’d get more evidence or it wasn’t worth mentioning. Nothing else had happened until I left work. It must have been about half past six, so the sun was just about starting to go down, and I headed back up towards Victoria. The first thing I noticed out of the ordinary was that the café was still open. Normally they shut up about six o’clock, but the lights were on and the door was open. I couldn’t see anyone behind the counter, though, and there was only one customer. He sat there in the exact same position he’d been that morning, drinking what could easily have been the exact same coffee.

I looked around to see if there was anyone else who could confirm what I was seeing. The street was empty, but as I looked, a car drove past. In the curving glass of its tinted windows, I saw him there, the weird distorted body, rail thin and limp, the hands huge and sharp. And then the car passed on and I turned back to see a normal-looking man. But now, for the first time, he was looking at me. He gestured to the chair across from him, clearly inviting me inside. I don’t know why I wasn’t more scared going in there, but I wasn’t. My curiosity apparently conquered my nervousness.

He didn’t speak when I sat down, and I saw his coffee cup was empty. Whatever was inside had dried up hours ago. He seemed to be waiting for me to ask him a question. So I asked him what he was. He laughed at this, the first sound I’d heard him make, and it sounded… unnatural. Like he was laughing very quietly, but someone had turned up the volume up so I could hear it. He said it didn’t matter what he was, that he couldn’t describe it even if he wanted to. What was the phrase he used… “How would a melody describe itself when asked?”

This put my back up a bit to be honest, and I told him if he was going to talk in cheap riddles I was just going to leave. He actually apologised, told me I could call him Michael. I didn’t want to call him Michael; it didn’t seem to fit somehow, and the way he said it made me think that it definitely was not his name. Still, it wasn’t like I had any other name for him. No, not for him. For it.

It sat there, clearly waiting for me to ask another question, so I did. I asked it what it wanted, and was told that it wanted to help.

ARCHIVIST
Help? With… what?

SASHA
That’s what I said. Did it want to stop Jane Prentiss? It laughed that weird laugh again and told me that I had no idea what was really going on. It didn’t sound like it had any intention of telling me, though, it just seemed like it was amused by my attempts to understand. Then it said it didn’t care if I or my companions lived or died, but that “the flesh-hive was always rash”. It said it wanted to be friends. When it said this it put its hand in mine, and it may have looked like a human hand, but it was heavy. It felt like a… wet leather bag full of heavy stones. Sharp stones.

I pulled my hand away quickly and got up to leave. By this point I was just about sick of this weird thing that looked like a person but was not a person and talked in riddles. It made no move to stop me as I headed towards the door. As I was about to exit, though, it called after me, and said if I was interested in saving your life it would be waiting at Hanwell Cemetery.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, saving my life?

SASHA
Yeah. It called you by name. You. And Martin. And Tim.

ARCHIVIST
That’s… unsettling.

SASHA
It really was. At the time I just tried to ignore it. I went home and I got as much sleep as I could. I don’t know if you noticed how tired I was yesterday, what with Tim’s April Fools’ joke.

ARCHIVIST
Don’t remind me.

SASHA
Well, I was a bit of a mess. I checked the cafe on the way in, and on the way home. I even went down there on my lunch, but ‘Michael’ wasn’t there. Part of me wanted to tell you about it immediately, to make a statement, but even if you believed me I knew you’d try and talk me out of going to Hanwell Cemetery, and I had just about made my mind up to go. I didn’t know if what Michael had said was a threat or a warning or just a lie, but I decided I couldn’t take the chance. So I went to the cemetery.

The sun was starting to go down when I got there, and the gates of the graveyard were lit with the bright orange of the dying light. It had been raining earlier that day, and the pools of water reflected the vivid colours of the sky. Hanwell is an old cemetery, and past the walls I could see the weathered old gravestones standing silent. As it turned out, I didn’t have to go inside. Michael was waiting for me next to the tall iron gates when I arrived. I caught a glimpse of its reflection in one of the deep pools of rainwater, and shuddered as I saw again - the warped body and swollen bony hands.

It didn’t say anything when I arrived, just nodded at me to follow. I have no idea how long he had stood there waiting for me. I expected to go into the graveyard, but instead Micahael started walking down the road towards a nearby row of houses. The sign on the road said Azalea Close. Most of the buildings were in good repair, but there was one at the end that looked abandoned. It might have been a pub at one point, but now all the windows were boarded with metal sheets, and covered with dirt and graffiti. The door, however, was open and swinging gently. Michael went inside, clearly expecting me to follow, so I did.

Inside was dark and dusty. I was annoyed with myself that I hadn’t thought to bring a torch, but just enough of the setting sun came through the door for me to see by. It clearly had once been a pub, and the bar appeared to be intact, though riddled with woodworm. Sitting on top of it was what looked like a builder’s kit, with a toolbox and a small fire extinguisher. I was just about to ask Michael why we were here, when I heard it. A low, wet groan coming from the far end of the room, where the light didn’t reach. It sounded like someone in a great deal of pain.

I walked towards the noise. As I got closer my eyes began to adjust, and I saw the floor was covered in pale, writhing shapes. I had a listen to Martin’s statement after you recorded it, so I knew what to expect. But hearing about something doesn’t even come close to seeing it. To smelling it. I expected to see what Martin described, a squirming mass that was once Jane Prentiss, but the figure slumped against the wall looked like it was once a man. The worms wriggled out through the holes in his skin. The ‘flesh-hive’, Michael had called it, and the silver things formed clustered knots where his eyes used to be. I couldn’t help it. I gasped.

It wasn’t a loud sound, and given how sick the whole situation made me feel I think I actually was quite composed. It was loud enough, though. The head snapped around to face me, dislodging a small cascade of twisting shapes. The mouth opened as he tried to scream but that wasn’t what came out of his mouth. The worms also seemed to have taken notice and began to move towards me at an alarming speed. I backed away, but slipped on a piece of loose wood and fell into the bar. I glanced desperately at Michael, but it just watched me, its face unreadable.

I started to try and stamp on the worms as they approached, but there was just too many of them. Staggering to my feet, I felt my hand come to rest on something cold and metal - the fire extinguisher. Without thinking, I pulled the pin out and squeezed the handle. A cloud of gas shot out and, to my surprise, the silver worms began to shudder and recoil, shrivelling and dying. I began to walk forward, catching every last one in the jet of gas. Finally, I found myself standing over the mass of pitted and hollow skin that was once a man. He shuddered violently as the gas engulfed him, and then lay still.

I was breathing heavily, and the CO2 from the fire extinguisher was making me feel light-headed. For some reason I felt like I should check his pockets. They were empty except for a wallet. It was stained with blood and other substances, but the name on the driver’s licence was still readable: Timothy Hodge.

As I stood there, staring at the wallet, I felt a sharp pain in my right arm. I looked up to see Michael, reaching into my shoulder. Its fingers were long and distorted as they reached through my skin, cutting it like paper. I screamed. After a few seconds, it withdrew its hand. Held there was a single silver worm, wriggling pathetically in its grip. I hadn’t even felt the thing burrowing into my arm.

After that it’s all a bit of blur. I remember I was going to phone the police, but Timothy Hodge’s corpse was gone, and I was worried about trespassing, so I just sort of wandered away. Michael, or whatever it was, had gone as well. Eventually I found my way back to the Institute, where I must have woken up Martin and, well, here we are.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I suppose we are.

SASHA
So what do you think?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I don’t really know. We can look into it more later.

SASHA
I should really quit, you know. We, we all should. I don’t think this a normal job. I, I don’t think this is a safe job.

ARCHIVIST
You’re probably right. Do you want to quit?

SASHA
No. I’m just… I’m just too damned curious, I suppose. You?

ARCHIVIST
No. Whatever’s going on, I need to know. Get some rest.

[CLICK]
Statement ends.

Obviously there is little we can really do to follow up Sasha’s experience. If it was any of the others I might have cause to doubt, but she has always been the most level-headed of the team, and if she says that this is what happened, then I believe her.

This does at least explain what happened to Timothy Hodge, whose disappearance shortly after making his statement in late 2014 has been something of a concern since I discovered it. It seems odd how different the effect of Prentiss’… infestation was on him and Harriet Lee, but without more information I don’t have a working theory on why that might have been.

The thing that most disquiets me about Sasha’s statement is this ‘Michael’. She seems pretty convinced that he was not human, at least not in the conventional sense. Almost every statement I’ve catalogued has engaged with the paranormal in some form of antagonistic relationship. The idea that there are things out there like that that want to help us… For some reason, that makes me more uncomfortable than the worm-infested creature stalking the Institute.

Sasha has taken a few days off to recuperate, and I’m having a word with Elias about getting some extra CO2 fire extinguishers for the Archive.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Paul McKenzie, regarding repeated nocturnal intrusions into his home. Original statement given August 24th, 2003. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It’s strange to live alone. Maybe not if you’re used to it, I suppose. If you’ve lived a solitary life then I’m sure it doesn’t feel so isolated or empty. Heck, I remember a time when I wouldn’t have batted an eyelid at living on my own. But now I’m so used to having other people in the house that it’s a sad, lonely existence I’ve found myself living. Even before I started having my nightly visitor.

My son Marcus moved out about two years ago, and before that he’d spent a lot of time away at university or, later, moving around because of his work. So I’d grown accustomed to his absence. But when Diane, my wife, passed away four months ago it has… left the place so terribly hollow. I tell myself that it was a mercy, that by the end her condition meant she wasn’t able to live as she deserved to. And while I’m sure it’s true, the sentiment does little to make the bed seem anything other than far too large for just me. She’d hate me saying that. Diane never had any time for mopers or people who wallowed in self-pity, but after forty years of marriage I think I’ve earned it.

The thing about living in a house full of people if that you can just ignore any noises that you hear in the night. Is that a creak on the stairs? It’s probably just someone going down for a glass of water. What was that thump? Probably Marcus up too late, and accidentally knocking things off the table. I know it doesn’t actually make you less likely to be robbed or broken into, but you stop panicking about it every time you hear the slightest noise from outside your room. I think that’s normal, at least. I’ve never considered myself to have a nervous disposition, but maybe other people just get on with things and don’t worry so much.

Still, since Diane died my nights have become a constant vigil. No house is silent if you listen hard enough, and since ending up alone, I have been listening so hard that at points I have to remind myself to breathe. Now every soft groan of the settling house is the sound of some violent thug or burglar in my home, waiting to see if they need to kill me. Marcus has suggested I get a pet so the house doesn’t feel so empty, but I’ve never had a pet before, and I’m too old to learn now.

Given how alert and paranoid I generally am when trying to sleep in an empty house, I’m sure you can imagine my terror when I heard something outside my room one night about a month ago. I’ve lived in the same house since I married Diane, and I know every squeaky floorboard. It was the one just at the top of the stairs. I waited, desperately straining my ears to hear any other sound of movement. I had heard no windows break or doors open downstairs, and I definitely hadn’t heard anyone coming up the stairs, but I was convinced there was someone there. I could feel their presence waiting on the landing. Had they realised how loud the floorboard was? Were they stood there, motionless, listening for any movement from me just as keenly as I was listening for them?

Then the sound came again, and I was sure there was someone stood at the top of the stairs, but rather than staying there, I began to hear the heavy tread of what was unmistakably footsteps. At first I… simply lay there, paralysed with fear, thinking that I would just… stay, let them take anything they wanted from the house, and call the police once they had left. But from what I could make out they didn’t seem to be going into any of the other rooms. They were slowly, and deliberately, walking towards my bedroom.

The door does have a lock on it, but it’s been so long since I even thought to use it that, at the time, I couldn’t even think where the key might have been. My heart almost stopped when I heard the door handle rattle ever so gently as a hand was placed upon the other side. And slowly, so painfully slowly, the doorknob began to turn. In a burst of adrenaline I didn’t even know I was capable of I sprang out of the bed and across the room. I seized the handle and twisted it back the other way, using both hands to try and match the strength of whoever was on the other side.

Still the handle tried to turn, with a slow, relentless effort that spoke of patience and determination, but sheer panic lent me equal strength. My hands began to grow wet with what I assumed, at the time, was sweat, and I worried about keeping my grip. I did, though. For twenty long minutes, I wrestled in the dark over the door handle of my room. I could have reached the light switch, but that would have meant having only one hand to keep on the door, so I stayed in the dark.

Then all at once the pressure vanished. The handle no longer tried to turn. I had heard no other sound from outside, though. No footsteps leading away, no sound of someone going down the stairs, the house was just silent. I stood there for the rest of the night, the handle gripped tight. And it wasn’t until the first rays of sun peeked through the windows that I found I had the courage to open my bedroom door and look outside.

Nothing.

I was so stiff that I could barely walk back to my bed and dial the number for the police. It was as I reached for the phone that I looked at my hands and saw that what was on them was not sweat. It was blood. I checked all over my hands and arms for cuts or injuries. Nothing. And the door handle was completely clean. I washed my hands thoroughly before I dialled 999.

The police came and they listened patiently to my story. They checked all around my house, but there were no signs of any intruder. All the windows and doors were still firmly locked and there was no sign of forced entry, nor had any of my possessions been taken or even moved. The officers assured me it was no problem, that they were happy to help, all in that tone that told me they thought I was just a senile old man hearing things in the night. I thanked them as they left, even though they had been of no help whatsoever, and spent the rest of the day searching for the key to my bedroom door. I found it in the end, and hoped that with it firmly locked I could sleep a bit easier that night. I was wrong.

When evening came, I tried to sleep. At least, I had convinced myself that I was trying to sleep. Actually, I was listening for any sign that the intruder had returned. Every creak of the house settling, every whine of the pipes sent me into a state of near terror. By two o’clock in the morning I had heard nothing, and had almost convinced myself that I would not be visited again, when there was that slow, ominous creak of the floorboard at the top of the stairs. As before, the footsteps approached my bedroom, heavy and methodical. I turned on my bedside lamp and watched as once again the handle of the door began to turn. I could see the pressure being put on the door by whoever was on the other side, but it was locked, and as the door failed to open, there was a long pause.

Then it began to turn violently back and forth, rattling and banging as it rotated with such force that I worried it might come off entirely. I let out a cry as the assault intensified, and phoned again for the police. It took them twelve minutes to reach me, and all the while my bedroom door shook with the relentless turning of the handle, but the lock held firm. As soon as the doorbell rang, it went immediately still and silent. I didn’t want to unlock and open the door, but if I didn’t the police officers might break down my front door or, even worse, leave.

What happened next was almost identical to what had happened the day before, except this time there was less gentle tolerance in their voices when they spoke to me. I got the clear impression that if I called them again without proof, there would be… undesirable consequences. One of the two muttered something about how difficult it must be for me to live on my own, a message I got loud and clear. I have no intention of being put in a home.

And so, for the last month I have lain awake almost every night, as whatever it is beyond the threshold of my bedroom tries with all its might to get in. I watch the doorknob obsessively, always waiting for the signs of that gentle turning. The first ones are always so slow.

I tried to get proof for the police. I got Marcus to stay over with me a few nights, in the hope of either scaring the intruder away or having a witness who could corroborate my story. Those were the only nights I got any peace. Nothing came up to my door when he was there. In some ways it was a relief, to have a way of ensuring I could sleep, but it gave me no evidence to convince anyone, and I know he didn’t believe me when I told him what was going on. He just looked… worried when I brought it up, and I didn’t mention it again.

Unfortunately, I can’t get Marcus to stay with me every night. He has his own life to lead and is living with his fiancée at the moment, so I can’t just ask him to move back in with his dad. I tried to set up some cameras in the upstairs hallway, at the top of the stairs and outside my room, but they show nothing. They don’t even pick up the door handle turning, even at times I know for certain that the thing was trying to get inside. There was only one moment, just a frame or two, I think, where the shadows the camera caught on the wall seemed almost to form a face. It seemed to be leering at me, the mouth wide open in a mock scream. It scared me so badly that I had to delete the footage. I have no evidence for the police. Or for you either, I suppose.

I guess that’s why I’m here. This is what you people do. You investigate these things. You know what to look for and can identify the signs of things that… aren’t right. You know, not of this world. I’m not saying it’s a ghost or anything like that, it’s just… that well, if it was a ghost, you’d be the ones to talk to, right? I just need it to stop. And I don’t want to be put in a home. I know they will, if I keep telling them about how my door handle rattles and turns every night, they’ll think I’m senile and useless and send me to a home, and I will not let that happen. It’s my house, and I don’t care how much it scares me, nothing is going to make me give it up. Maybe Marcus is right. Maybe I should get a dog.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I want to believe Mr. McKenzie, I really do. I am not entirely made of stone, and am apt to be moved by the plea of a scared old man as much as anybody. I mean, dementia is, of course, the most likely explanation, and he admits himself that he has no proof of any of it. Yet part of me still wants to believe him. Perhaps this job is making me sentimental.

In any case it’s a moot point. Mr. McKenzie died of a stroke some two months after making this statement, and there doesn’t seem to be any obvious connection between his passing and his statement to the Institute. When this was originally logged, apparently we did send a then-member of the research staff, one Sarah Carpenter, to take some readings of the house. Apparently, she felt there was little enough danger to justify an overnight vigil at the place, but like everyone else in Mr. McKenzie’s tale, she encountered no strangeness or intruders on the upstairs landing, or in any other part of the building.

Sasha, who has now returned after her brief convalescence, has confirmed the call outs against police reports and they appear to match, though obviously they’re rather light on detail. Martin made contact with the son, Marcus McKenzie, but he declined to talk to us, saying that he’d “already made his statement.” This leads me to believe that Marcus McKenzie may also have a statement lurking somewhere here in the archives, lost among the mess and misfiling.

The only other thing that stands out from this as strange is that Sarah Carpenter, the researcher originally sent to look into this back in 2003, took some rather detailed photographs of the interior and layout of the house. Looking through them now, it strikes me that the bedroom door, to which Mr. McKenzie refers so often, does not appear to have a keyhole, or any sort of lock.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Please state your name and the subject of your experience.

MELANIE
Into that? You’re joking.

ARCHIVIST
I can assure you this will record just fine.

MELANIE
I knew you guys were a bit… slapdash, but this is absurd.

ARCHIVIST
No doubt you’re used to a higher calibre of equipment when pretending to see ghosts in old churchyards and mental institutions.

MELANIE
People like a show. People like our show. And, even if we do ham it up a bit, even we do add a bit of sparkle, we’re still more respected and evidence-based paranormal investigators than you and your lot. [NERVOUS, DISPARAGING LAUGH]

ARCHIVIST
We are not ‘paranormal investigators’. We are researchers. Scholars.

MELANIE
Whatever. The fact is, we may play it up a bit for the camera, but that’s because you can only look at temperature spikes and EMF readings for so long. We still only look into genuine, documented supernatural phenomena. You take any ridiculous story, from any drugged-up, dreaming, traumatised idiot off the street. Vampires, monsters under the bed, mind control - really! Who cares about evidence, who cares about scientific instruments when you can just tell a story to the Magnus Institute!

ARCHIVIST
And yet you’ve come to make a statement.

MELANIE
Well, yeah… But…

ARCHIVIST
Let me guess. None of your ‘respectable’, paranormal investigators would believe you?

MELANIE
[SIGH]

ARCHIVIST
Well, let me be quite clear. Chances are very strong that I won’t believe you either. But we will take your statement. And we will look into it for you. Now, please state your name and the subject of your experience.

MELANIE
My name is Melanie King. I’ve got a YouTube channel called Ghost Hunt UK.

ARCHIVIST
And your statement is regarding…

MELANIE
What I saw at the abandoned Cambridge Military Hospital when we were filming there in January 2015.

ARCHIVIST
Recording date 17th April, 2016.

Hold on, the Cambridge Military Hospital? I was under the impression the hauntings there were very well-documented. Why would none of your ‘respectable’ colleagues believe you? I would have thought it would be right up their alley.

MELANIE
Because what I saw had nothing to do with the hospital itself. At least, I don’t think it did.

ARCHIVIST
Go on.

MELANIE
Well, we’d been angling to film there for months. The show is pretty standard stuff - we head to the location after dark, we explore a bit, we set up the equipment, and then, of course, we spend some time afterwards analysing the data and -

ARCHIVIST
Seeing ghosts?

MELANIE
Well, yeah. Y’know what? Sometimes, sure. We do. We get evidence.

Anyway, we’d been angling to go into the CMH for months, er, but I couldn’t get permission. Apparently there’s asbestos in the walls; it makes it “too much of a health and safety hazard”. It was due to be pulled down and turned into a housing development in June, though, so we were on a bit of deadline.

Luckily, we’re an independent show. I don’t have anyone breathing down my neck or checking my legals about this sort of thing. And it wouldn’t be the first time that we were going to do something…

ARCHIVIST
Illegal?

MELANIE
Unorthodox! And hey, the worst that we’ve ever got before was a fine, so we figured it wasn’t going to be too much of a problem. The team going in was meant to be me, my co-host Andy…

ARCHIVIST
Full names, please.

MELANIE
My co-host, Andy Caine, as well as Peter Warhol on sound and Antonia Farron, er, Toni, doing camera work. Thing is Pete got cold feet a few days before we were due to head out. Apparently he just wasn’t comfortable with the possibility of asbestos. I guess I can understand, but it meant we were down a sound guy, so I put out feelers to see if anyone had any contacts who could step in.

Well, Georgie Barker, who hosts the “What the Ghost?” podcast, knew someone. She’d said she’d done a few location episodes of WTG with a sound engineer by the name of Sarah Baldwin, and could vouch for her reliability, although Georgie warned she was “a little bit unsocial”. I reckoned we didn’t need her talkative as long as she knew her stuff, so I gave Sarah a call. She agreed to help us out, and I figured the episode was going to come out just fine.

So, the night of the twelfth rolled around, and Toni came round to pick us up. She’s the one with the van, so generally does the driving. Me and Andy live together, so the three of us headed over to pick up Sarah. Her address was listed as in Sydenham, down in South London, but when we pulled up the building seemed dark. I don’t think it was abandoned or anything like that, but it certainly didn’t seem like anyone was home. Andy hopped out and buzzed her number on the doorbell, and after a minute of waiting there, there was no reply.

We were all just getting a little bit antsy, because if we don’t have a sound tech, we don’t have a show. So I gave Sarah a ring. And it went straight through to voicemail. I was just about ready to scream in frustration, but almost as soon as I put the phone down I got a call from an unknown number. I answered it, and immediately I heard her voice, asking if we were outside. I said yeah, and she ended the call immediately. We all watched the door, but another two minutes passed, and still no-one came out. Then, out of nowhere we heard a knock on the back of the van.

I hopped out, and standing there was Sarah. She was short, really short, with dark brown hair cropped close. She was wearing black cargo trousers and a grey T-shirt, with a light black jacket over the top. I… I thought that was a bit off as it was the middle of January. I mean, sure, it was a mild winter, but it’s a long way from T-shirt weather.

I introduced myself, but she just nodded and lit a cigarette. I was about to say that we’d prefer she didn’t smoke in the van, but she’d already opened up the back door and climbed inside, puffing away. I remembered Georgie’s warning that she was ‘a little bit unsocial’ and kicked myself for not asking more about it. Still, she was here now, we had a sound tech, so we were going to be able to have an episode.

It was about a two hour drive to the CMH. It’s down in Aldershot, in Hampshire, and I’ve got to say that was about the longest two hours of my life. Sarah didn’t talk much. If you asked her any questions, you’d just get a one word answer, and, I swear, she worked hard to find the shortest word she could. She smoked constantly, so we had to ride with the windows down and the van was freezing.

And there was also… I don’t know. The oddest smell. It was definitely Sarah. It smelled like a really bad perfume: sharp and faintly floral, but not like any scent I could place. I didn’t like it, but it was hardly noticeable through those damned cigarettes. I could tell Toni was having a hard time too. Andy seemed happy enough, but he’s one of the most laid-back people I’ve ever met, so no surprise there.

We got into Aldershot about 8pm and headed toward the old hospital. It took a bit of finding, but eventually we saw it standing there, dark and silent against the night sky. It’s a pretty imposing building, the sharp-tipped clocktower above the main hall.

We parked a little way away, just in case there was security that might have stumbled across the van, and walked towards it. As we got closer, I noticed that Sarah was hanging back. I asked her if she was okay, and she just looked at me and said, “You didn’t tell me about this place.”

There was real anger in that voice. I was surprised, not only because that was the most words I’d ever heard her strung together, but also because I’d been really quite detailed about where we were going and the history of the place when I first contacted her.

I said as much, but she just shook her head. I asked if there was going to be a problem, and she paused, lit another cigarette, and gave me a slow shrug. Then without a word she picked up her bag and started walking towards the main building.

Getting inside wasn’t a problem. The ground floor windows were large, and it looked like we weren’t the first trespassers wanting to get inside; a few of the boards covering them had been pried away already. So, we turned on our torches and headed inside.

Now, the particular ghost we were after that episode was a grey lady. There are grey ladies everywhere. I mean, it’s not like it’s an official ghost classification, but if you find somewhere haunted in England, there’s a good chance that one or more of the ghosts will be called “The Grey Lady”. Old hospitals, asylums, orphanages, they’re usually believed to be the ghost of a nurse or something, anywhere that women had a duty.

And the Cambridge Military Hospital was no exception to that. Various old tales of soldiers being visited by an apparition in the night while recuperating on the ward; a few members of the public as it was opened up to the civilian population after the Second World War. They are generally benign encounters, even kind, so we were arguing about whether to try and angle the episode for spookiness, or try and build up a more emotional tale.

Eventually we decided to shoot both sorts for the storytelling and investigation, and then see what happened in terms of phenomena so we could intercut as appropriate. Throughout all of this discussion Sarah was totally silent. She was chain-smoking, casting her torch around slowly and deliberately, as if she was looking for something, and we were constantly having to adjust our shots to avoid her clouds of smoke interfering with the filming. I tried to ignore her, but to be honest she was freaking me out a lot more than the place itself.

So, we started wandering round, recounting the history of the place to camera. We made sure to film any bits of the building that might be creepy enough twice - once with low light in the cold, stark torchlight, then switching out for the warmer bulbs in case we case we wanted to use the footage for a tragedy angle. The builders had clearly been in already, and marked various areas with spray paint. It was a bit disconcerting, as the shade of red they had used kept making me think that they were blood splashes, so I was leaning towards the ‘creepy old hospital’ angle.

There was also the normal, actual graffiti, of course. Mostly the standard collection of tags, names, but there was one that stood out. It was in what had eventually become the children’s ward; over a mural of Winnie the Pooh, someone had scrawled in black spraypaint the words “Silk will not stitch the butcher’s meat”. So… yeah, by the end we’d pretty much settled on going for the spooky angle.

We hadn’t had any encounters though, so once we’d got the main footage we needed, we headed into the main ward, now a huge, empty room, with only the metal skeleton of curtain runners around the top. We set up the detection equipment, and bedded down for the night. Each of us had a watch, so as to make sure that someone was awake for any contact. I was hesitant to give Sarah a shift, as she’d be acting so strangely the entire time, but when she volunteered for the 2am to 4am shift, y’know, no-one wants that one, I, I couldn’t easily say no.

I was on the shift before, and there didn’t seem anything much to report. A slight drop in temperature around 1 in the morning, which I filmed, even though in the end we decided not to use that footage. When 2am rolled around, I walked over to where Sarah lay sleeping. She hadn’t been smoking for a while, of course, and that weird floral perfume of hers was stronger than ever. I reached out to touch her on the shoulder and wake her up, when she rolled over and looked right at me.

There was no sign of fatigue in her eyes, and I couldn’t help but wonder if she’d been asleep at all. Or maybe just lying very, very still. I tried not to think about it as I crawled into my sleeping bag on the cold hospital floor, and the last thing I heard before I drifted off was the click of Sarah Baldwin’s lighter.

I woke up about an hour later. I don’t know what woke me, but the others were all still asleep. I realised that I couldn’t smell cigarettes, and looking around it appeared Sarah had wandered off. It was almost pitch dark, with only a small amount of moonlight creeping in through the boarded windows. I turned on a torch and checked the readings. There were no spikes in EMF, but it looked like the temperature had dropped sharply about 10 minutes before. I waited for another five minutes, but when Sarah still hadn’t returned I started to get a bit worried.

I should have woken the others, but if it turned out she’d just gone to the bathroom, I didn’t want to embarrass her in front of everyone. In that case she should have got one of us up to take over watching, anyway, but she’d hardly been the most professional while she was working with us, so it wouldn’t have surprised me if she hadn’t. After another five minutes, I decided to go look for her.

Maybe the place was getting to me a bit, but all my suspicions about Sarah were making me paranoid. I decided not to take a torch. Instead, I took one of the cameras we weren’t using and turned on the night vision setting. Through the viewscreen I was able to see where I was going pretty well.

I started to check the ground floor. The night vision cast everything into stark shapes, and every time I turned the corner it seemed like there was something there, just beyond the range of the camera. I couldn’t see or hear anything, but it was just there. I could feel it.

There was a smell as well, growing stronger. It wasn’t cigarette smoke, though, or Sarah’s strange perfume. It smelled of copper, with another scent beneath it, acrid and sour, with the faintest hint of ammonia. I’ll, I’ll admit it, I was scared. Scared enough that I didn’t even think about how great the whole thing would have looked in our show. I didn’t look into the camera, or provide any commentary, or make any move except keeping a close watch on the display.

As I walked up the stairs towards the upper floor, I began to hear something. It sounded like someone was talking. It was low, quick and desperate, with an edge to it that sounded almost like pleading. It was coming from one of the smaller patient rooms off to the side. I slowly crept towards it, feeling absurd about how terrified I was about being seen.

I reached the door and, using the camera, I peered inside. Sarah was there, with her bag next to her. She was gesticulating wildly and talking, though I couldn’t see anyone else in the room with her. I couldn’t make out most of it, though I heard the words “trespass” and “unintended” several times, and whispered apologies.

I was almost about to call out to her, when she suddenly stood bolt upright. It seemed like she was struggling to breathe. Then I heard an impact, and Sarah seemed to be flung across the room by a heavy blow. She hit the wall hard, and I heard a crack as she slumped down, a smear of blood left on the wall.

I froze. I didn’t know what to do. Part of me wanted to run over and see if she was alright, but I just couldn’t bring myself to move. After a second or two, Sarah stirred. She shouted something into the room, this time in a language I didn’t understand, and dragged herself to her feet. She removed her jacket and I saw that there was something very wrong with her left arm. Bits of it seemed to be hanging off where it had hit the wall.

She gripped it with her right hand and, er… well, this is where my colleagues would laugh me out of the industry. She peeled off the skin of her left arm. As if she was taking off a glove. I saw it stretch and come away from whatever was beneath. In the camera’s small viewscreen I couldn’t see what was there, what was underneath, but it was dark and shiny. I will never forget the sound of the skin coming away from her arm.

Once she had taken it off, she stretched it, and then slipped it back over her hand, pulling it until it was tight. She reached into her bag and, from beneath the packets of cigarettes, she pulled out a staple gun. Around the edges of the skin, where it met the rest of her, she slowly and deliberately stapled the skin down.

I don’t know why that was the point I ran. I could have left at any time before that, but for some reason that was the thing that broke me, and I hurried back to the others as quietly as I could. Sarah returned about fifteen minutes later, and didn’t seem to suspect she’d been observed. I lay awake the rest of that night, smelling her cigarette smoke and the traces of her odd floral perfume.

I never asked her about it. I never brought it up with the others. We got whatever daylight shots of the Cambridge Military Hospital we needed almost in silence, though Andy kept trying to strike up a conversation. The journey back was no better. I kept trying to get a look at Sarah’s arm, but her jacket sleeves covered them completely. We dropped her off in Sydenham and I never saw her again.

In the end it was actually Toni that asked we not work with Sarah Baldwin again. Apparently she’d gotten “weird vibes” and didn’t feel comfortable around her. I agreed, though I didn’t share my reasons. The episode came out okay, in the end though, um, though I didn’t include anything about what I saw that night.

ARCHIVIST
Interesting. You say you recorded video of the event?

MELANIE
Yeah, I’ve given your guys a copy, but watching it back, the recording is so distorted that you can’t really make anything out.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm. And you’re sure you weren’t… dreaming?

MELANIE
Are you serious?

ARCHIVIST
I just have to check every possibility. Obviously working in your field, you must have quite a powerful imagination.

MELANIE
Great! Great! I should have known this was a complete waste of my time.

ARCHIVIST
Probably. The only corroborating evidence you have is so badly corrupted as to become almost unusable. But, we will do what investigation we can.

MELANIE
[Acidly] Well, thank you so much.

ARCHIVIST
We’ll be in touch if we need anything else.

Statement ends.

[CLICK]
As I mentioned to Ms. King, there is little in this statement by way of information we can follow up. Cambridge Military Hospital is currently in the process of being turned into a housing development, so there is not much to be done in that regard. There are records of a ‘grey lady’ ghost appearing in the past, specifically in the form of a nurse, though none of them come even close to matching this statement in terms of manifestation.

We were unable to track down Sarah Baldwin. The address Ms. King provided in Sydenham has not been occupied for the last six month, and does not list her as a previous tenant. We contacted Georgina Barker, who confirmed that she had worked with Sarah Baldwin on two episodes of her “What the Ghost?” podcast, having previously met her at a networking event. She knew nothing about her personal life and has not seen her since the last episode they worked on.

Neither the phone number or email address received any answer or reply. Still, where do I know the name Sarah Baldwin from? If I have the time, I might go back over some earlier files. See what I can find.

The footage Ms. King provided was just as a corrupted as she said, being virtually unwatchable. Just static and distortion. There’s only one or two frames where the quality is sufficient that anything can be made out. It appears to be an empty hospital room, as described. The only point where it differs from Ms. King’s story is that there appear to be two figures in the shot, rather than just the one. The first seems to be kneeling, and matches the description of Sarah Baldwin. The other figure is much taller, and appears to be pointing, though no features can be made out, it does not appear to be touching the ground.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Nathaniel Thorp, regarding his own mortality. Original statement given June 4th, 1972. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Are you interested in folktales at all? I know I’m here to provide a statement of my own experience, and I will, but there’s something so revealing in the stories that grow up in a culture, wouldn’t you say? And I promise it will be relevant by the end. I can guarantee it’s not in your library, either, because as far as I know this story has never been written down. I’d do it myself, but there’s a reason you’re having to write this for me. One of these days I’ll get around to learning my letters. Probably.

But I’ll still wager, illiterate or not, that I can tell you a story you haven’t heard before, though the themes are some that dance their way through many of the oldest folklore you can find: death. And games of chance. Well, if you want to win, anyway. Unless you fancy your chances of beating it at chess. But I’m getting ahead of myself.

Once there was a soldier. A bold soldier. The sort you could find in any army, in any war, at any time. Fond of drink, fond of dice, fond of whatever nocturnal pleasures might be offered. He was bold as brass, yet bold is not the same as brave, and rarely did he take to the field of battle without somehow finding himself at the rear of the charge, where cannon and musket ball were less likely to find him. As I say, he could have been fighting anywhere, but this story is in New England, during the time of the Revolutionary War. Whether he was British or American or even French, it means nothing. What matters, is that at the Battle of Bunker Hill he found himself alone.

The night before had been wasted hard carousing, and what money he had not lost betting on faro had quickly been spent on drinking and pleasant company. So it was that he took to the field of battle with his head already swimming and eyes a stinging red. He had neglected even to bring gunpowder enough to reload his rifle, having filled his pouch instead with playing cards, and with every boom of the cannon the soldier’s head pulsed in such pain that he thought himself shot.

The smoke was coiled thick around him and the acrid stench of gunpowder and blood made him retch. He fired his one and only shot and it disappeared into the roiling fog of war. He tried to advance, but he did not know which way was towards the enemy, nor could he see any others amidst the chaos of battle, enemy or comrade. For all the muskets and cannons he could hear, it seemed he was alone. As he stood there, the soldier saw that some of the blood that fell into the sodden soil was his own. When he had been shot, he had no idea, but the pain that surged through him as touched his wounded chest left no doubt.

The bold soldier considered returning to his lines, to find a doctor, but he remembered all too clearly the mouldering filth of the medical tents, the ranks of infected fools wailing out their last doomed cries. He would not die like that. He would not choke out some feeble plea for his mother in some grime-encrusted infirmary. He turned, threw down his rifle, and began to run. He did not know in which direction he was going, and simply prayed that it was not towards the enemy or the sea. Blood flowed freely from the ragged wound in his chest, and his breathing was laboured, yet he pushed on. He ran until the mud turned to soil and the soil turned to grass, until the smoke turned to fog and the fog turned to rain, and dusk came upon him.

Despite the balmy warmth of that June day, the night was bitterly cold. Perhaps it was the rain that pounded upon his tunic, or maybe it was the beginnings of a fever, but when the soldier finally stopped running, he was so chilled that it took all the energy he had left in him not to collapse. He was soaked through, shivering violently, and very aware that if he did not find somewhere to take shelter from the elements, he was going to die. And not a quick, clean death from a pistol or a sabre. A miserable, shivering death in some barren field near Boston. The soldier, whose boldness seemed to seep out with his blood, did not want to die.

And here there is something to be said on death. Everyone fears death. Of course they do. Even the most devout must have some apprehension, for however confident they are in a life everlasting with their deity of choice, the concept of eternity is one that the mortal mind recoils from. Be it bliss, torment or the senseless void, none can actually imagine what it is to die, so it’s only right that all should have a healthy fear of it. There are some, though, for whom it is an enduring terror. Who cannot even consider the inevitable termination of life without a deepest panic, and can think of nothing in life that could be worse than its end. The soldier was of this cloth, and upon feeling his time drawing to a close, he began to cast about in fear.

He spied a farmhouse, dark and uninviting. The fighting nearby had likely scared off whoever lived there. Desperate to get out of the pouring rain, the soldier tried the doors, and found them locked tight. He broke a window, but with his wound he did not have to strength to climb inside. In despair, he looked around himself for another entrance and spied the cellar door. It was not locked, and lifted with surprising ease, given how heavy the wood appeared. He collapsed inside, half-crawling, half-falling down the rough earthen steps, until he found himself lying there in the dark, dry warmth of the basement.

The soldier lay there for some time, unmoving, eyes shut. Listening to the driving New England rain beating down outside. He breathed deeply, ignoring the pain from his wounded chest, and tried to gather his thoughts. What was important, he considered briefly, was that at that moment, he was not dead.

It was then he caught the scent of damp. Not the damp of wet earth after a hot day, but the cold damp of vaults and catacombs, slick with mould and glimmering nitre. You would have expected Death to smell of decay, of rotting flesh and maggot meat, but it did not. And the soldier knew what it was immediately. Even before his eyes adjusted to the dark and looked to the table. Before he saw the figure that sat there in a moth-eaten monk’s robe. There was no reason to assume that what he saw was Death, and not simply some forgotten corpse, but there was no doubt in the soldier’s mind when he gazed upon it that he saw his doom embodied. Then it turned to look at the soldier, and what little resolve remained fled from his heart. He tried to run, but he got barely two steps before he collapsed again. Death waited patiently.

To describe it as a skeleton would be to do Death a disservice. For though the robe that sat in that chair contained only bones, it was not the skeleton that moved. It was Death. The bones were old, so ancient and brittle that the slightest pressure or movement would have rendered them down to dust. They did move; Death was no more a skeleton than you are a woollen suit. Above all it was old. Older than you could possibly dream.

And the soldier began to weep. He cried and begged Death not to take him, but Death was silent.

Now, as long as there have been people and games, there have been tales of those who gambled with Death. Some as metaphor, some as myth, but the soldier had heard enough of these tales to make his own last, desperate gamble, and he challenged Death to a game. There was silence for several long minutes before it nodded its head.

Reaching into its robe, Death pulled out three things: a chess knight, a domino and a pair of dice, each scrimshawed out of old bone. The choice presented was clear, but the soldier had enough wit about him to shake his head and reach into his pouch. He laid the cards upon the table, and asked Death if he knew how to play faro. Death paused, as though considering, before it nodded. “Very well,” it said, “and if you win, you shall not die.”

He replaced his totems within the mouldering robe, and pulled out instead a small hexagonal faro token, likewise made of bone. The soldier, starting to feel bold again as the wood of the table warped and decayed into the thirteen cards of a faro board, pushed it to the side and told Death, with the faintest hint of a smile, that he had brought his own. From somewhere, Death produced a dealing box and, placing the playing cards within it, it began to deal.

Faro, or ‘Bucking the Tiger’ as the carnival hawkers would have it, is not a complicated game. Bets are placed upon the cards and the dealer draws one card for the players and one for themselves. Bets matching the player’s card are doubled, bets matching the dealer’s cards are lost. There are a few other rules, of course, but if played honestly, then there is no betting game with fairer odds. The soldier had never before encountered an honest game.

He had before him a small pile of ivory sticks, not unlike those used for betting in mah-jongg, though the soldier had no knowledge of such a game. He knew that if his pile was gone, then his life was forfeit.

The game was slow and deliberate, and the soldier could not have said if they played for hours, for days or for months. The night outside showed no sign of ending, nor did the rain cease its drumming out a rhythm on the still open cellar door. The cards were placed slowly and deliberately by Death, and the soldier became more and more amazed with the revelation that this was least crooked game of faro he had ever played. Still, there was little scope to cheat, as there was none of the shouting or crowds that served as a distraction in every gambling parlour. The relentless hollow gaze of the collapsing holes of Death’s skull were enough to keep the soldier almost from pushing his luck too far.

Then at last it reached what looked to be the final play. The deck was almost exhausted, and all the soldier had was piled upon the number three. As his reserve had dwindled, the soldier felt the wound in his chest begin to pulse with a dull ache, as thick beads of sweat rolled down his shivering face. If the final three came up for the dealer, he had lost, but if it came up for him, then he would finish the game with a higher stack than Death. Perhaps that would be enough for him to win? The rules of the wager had not been clearly explained, but as the shivering began to overtake him, the soldier clutched to this faint hope. And as Death reached its hand for the final cards, he placed his copper upon his pile, the six-sided token that reversed the bet. Now it was, if Death drew the three as the dealer’s card, he would win.

Death turned the card to reveal… a King, and reached for the next one.

The soldier knew that he had made a mistake. When the three was turned, his would lose his bet and lose everything. He had only one chance, one thin sliver of hope, and even that would no doubt simply damn him further. But what else could he do? As Death turned its head towards the faro box to draw the next card, the soldier, in one practiced move, took the thin length of twine wrapped around his thumb and through the tiny, drilled hole in his copper, and pulled it taut. With an almost imperceptible flick of the wrist he pulled it back and into his hand, removing it from the board and leaving his bet to win when the three was drawn.

The terror that gripped him when Death returned its gaze to the board was deeper than any he had ever known. Every other time he had attempted that trick, the baying of the crowd and the heaving mass of patrons placing bets afforded him ample cover, yet in the stillness and dark, with just him and his endless opponent playing their game, there was surely no way such a move could go unnoticed. Death turned the card over: the Three of Spades.

It gazed at the card, then at the small pile of ivory in front of the soldier. It made no sound, and the soldier could not tell if what he heard was the rain falling outside or the beating of his own heart. Finally, Death nodded its head, and pushed its own pile of bone sticks towards the soldier.

“You win.”

Its tone was almost… happy. The soldier didn’t notice, as at these words a thrill went through his heart. He had beaten Death. He was going to live. He stood up, still giddy and feverish, but with such joy that he nigh on collapsed from the laughter that exploded from his lips. He staggered to the cellar door, expecting to see the sunrise after so long waiting in the dark, but the sky was still black. Behind him, Death waited.

The soldier noticed the pain in his chest was gone, and took in a lungful of air. It was cold, damp, and tinged with a faint whiff of something metallic. It was only then he really noticed the low, rumbling laugh that came from Death. He turned to see the figure still sat at the table, but now the old monk’s robes were soaked with blood. The bones of the figure were red and dripping, with patches of muscle appearing over them.

Then he felt it in himself. Something was very wrong. An itching, burning deep within him, then a flash of intense pain in his arm. He grabbed it instinctively, but where he touched it, the skin and flesh beneath it came away in his hand, like chunks of wet bread. Beneath it, he could see the yellow-white of bone. His bone. Old bone.

And the soldier began to scream.

As more of his body sloughed off of him into crimson piles upon the floor, he looked up at where Death had sat. In its place he saw an old monk, bloody but whole, smiling at him. The soldier held out a now bony hand towards him in supplication: “You said that if I won, then I’d live!”

The monk shook his head. “No, I didn’t.”

The end, I suppose. Thank you for indulging me, you’ve been very patient. I’m well aware I came in to tell you my own story, and instead have rattled off some old folktale, which you’ve dutifully taken down. I do feel now, though, that I’m at a place where I can tell you of myself. But for one final bit of context, I need you to watch this. Pay attention.

ARCHIVIST
Archivist’s note: After this point the rest of the page is covered in what appears to be a large bloodstain. The statement resumes on the page afterwards, in a somewhat shakier hand.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Apologies for that. A bit dramatic, I know, but I always feel a demonstration is best in these situations. Are you feeling better now? Well, regardless, I think I should continue; best get this down before someone comes to check on your scream. I’ve no interest in being becoming a resident medical marvel.

So yes, this is not a trick knife. You can check yourself if you want. Hell, stab me yourself if you care to. No? Fine. Perhaps I underestimated your curiosity.

After I won my game of faro, I spent almost two centuries in that unhallowed state. I remember little of that time. I was not the only one, nor was I the sole embodiment of Death. There were others, I think, in a similar state to me. I don’t know how many, but we didn’t come for everyone. I don’t know how we chose our victims, or whether we were at the whims of a higher power. I call them victims, as while we visited many a terminal or doomed soul, we did not only visit those whose time had come. Some of them we killed ourselves. I remember my bone-sharp hands reaching into the throats of the old, the young, those who deserved it, and those who brought nothing but love to the world.

Some would choose to gamble, of course. The foolish ones chose chess. I was a master of every game, knew every rule. To select the one game with no luck in it at all was always folly. In the end, it was roulette that released me. Luck bended in my favour when I played with victims, but with a game so pure in random chance as roulette, well, eventually, luck comes around, though I had to wait damn near two centuries for it to do so. I’ll never forget the look on that old man’s face when he won, and began to feel the change overtake him.

So now I’m here, and I cannot die. I can barely live, either. Food and drink make me sick, and I cannot sleep. There is an aching inside of me. A craving for something, but I don’t know what. I don’t seem to age, but I’ve only been flesh again for a few years, so can’t be sure of this. I have often wondered about whether I’m the only one like me in the world. I can’t be. It doesn’t make sense. I know there were others. But I don’t know where.

I can’t decide whether this existence I find myself in is better than the death I feared so long ago. I sometimes wonder, but have decided that it is. A living hell is, after all, still living.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I’ve had the blood checked, and it appears to be real. O Negative. And that’s about as far as I can confirm anything about this statement, forty-four years after the fact. The details Mr. Thorp provided on his residence, occupation, et cetera, appear to have been accurate for the time, but we’ve been unable to track down any up-to-date information on him, if he even still lives.

Fiona Law, the research assistant who took the statement, passed away in 2003 from complications following a liver transplant, and with two exceptions no-one else working for the Institute at the time is still employed here. Gertrude Robinson was there, of course, but we can’t exactly ask her, and Elias was working as a filing clerk at the time. I followed up with him, and he does remember there being something of a commotion around that time about someone self-harming while giving a statement - rumours said they’d cut off their finger or something - but he wasn’t directly involved and didn’t know much more about it.

Aside from that, it’s almost a complete dead end. The only other thing in the file can’t really be considered a lead, especially as it’s now gone. It was a small, hexagonal token, about an inch in diameter. There were no markings on it, but it appeared to be made of very old bone. I was unable to determine anything further, as when I picked it up, it simply crumbled to dust in my hand. Perhaps that’s fitting.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of David Laylow, regarding his time working at an industrial abattoir near Dalston. Original statement given September the 1st, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I used to work at a slaughterhouse. A ‘meat processing plant’. I won’t say which one. I don’t want to get in any trouble. It was up near Dalston, though, so you can probably figure it out. Not so many around out there as to make it hard. Not so many around anywhere. It’s not something most folks want nearby. It smells awful if you’re not used to it and people tell me they get a weird vibe. I never did, at least not before all this happened. Maybe that says something about me, though.

There’s not so much difference between people and animals, you know? Not saying that I’d be keen to kill a person, or that humans are all stupid. No, I’m saying that animals are smarter than you give them credit for. They look dumb, sure, but I know what I’m talking about when I say that every damn animal in that place knew exactly why they were there. You don’t need to be smart to know when you’re surrounded by your own mutilation.

When I first started I did a lot of the driving, and right from loading them up, you can hear it in their whining. They know what’s going on, they know where they’re going. I’ve heard a lot of engineering oand science types talk about “stressors”, “novelty” or “cortisol levels” when discussing how best to avoid “triggering fear or flight responses”. If it lets them keep enjoying their steak, they can use whatever words they want to, but every wide-eyed cow I’ve ever put into a squeeze chute knows exactly where that ride ends.

You hear grisly tales about the torment of animals in the slaughterhouse, and the things done to them by the cold, relentless machinery, but so often the casual human brutality is overlooked. A worker and an abattoir are rated on many things, and one of them is how cruel or distressing they are for the livestock passing through. If you’re abusive to your animals, you won’t get as high a rating, but that’s about it. You’re not going to lose your job unless you really overstep the line, and sometime you have a bad day. The sort of day that it feels good to work out on a bit of pig flesh, as it goes towards its end.

I mean, I wouldn’t really have said that sort of cruelty was common beyond the occasional kick or sometimes using an electric prod when it wasn’t needed. It was just that, if you did see it, you didn’t care. And you knew that no-one would care if they saw you do it. For all the braying and whining and screaming, in the end it was all just noisy meat.

Weirdest thing is, you start to kind of see people as meat too. Not in a food sort of way, you know. I don’t wanna eat my co-workers. It’s just that, when you spend all day taking these living, breathing creatures - animals that move and cry and tremble in fear - and you turn them into lifeless blocks of dead flesh, it’s hard to believe in any special spark that makes us humans any different. We run and shout and file on through our lives as simply as any cow, and after a while you can’t help but realise that we could turn into a lifeless carcass just as easily. Easier, even, given how much smaller we are. I mean, I’m not some weird killer or anything, but after a while it’s hard not to see everyone as moving meat.

I used to work on the killing floor, you know? Not long. You’re not allowed to work on it for long. In your whole life, I mean. I don’t know what the exact amount of time you’re allowed to do it for is, but it’s pretty short. I only worked it for a few months, and now I can’t work on any killing floor anywhere. Ever. It’s actually a weight lifted, the knowledge you don’t have to do it anymore, but you’re still there, aren’t you? It’s not like you’ve left the slaughterhouse. I heard once that those rules came in after they did some research in America. This must have been sixty years back now, but they started to look into the crime and murder rates of abattoir workers who manned the killing floor. Of the people who’d worked the killing floor for over ten years, do you know what percentage went on to commit murder? One hundred percent.

I don’t know if that’s true. Tony Mulholland told it to me once, when he quit the place. Maybe he was just trying to mess with my head or make a point, but it feels right. I mean, I only did it for a few months, but you kill enough things that don’t want to be killed and you start to look at person’s head and wonder where you’d need to place the bolt gun.

I’m sorry, I know this isn’t why I’m here, I just feel like I’ve got to try and make you understand what it’s like, killing things and butchering their flesh for a living. I mean, I don’t do it anymore, obviously. Still, you’ve got to understand where I’m coming from.

It all started on the killing floor. I was in charge of the bolt gun. Technically, the animals we slaughter are killed by bleeding them out, something about the meat quality, I think, but it’s the bolt gun that means they don’t notice. They call it “stunning”, but that’s never sat quite right with me. You drive a bolt right into the animal’s brain, destroying just the right part of it so that they can be bled without resistance, and apparently without pain. I’ve only ever done the stunning; I’ve never been on the bleed crew, so I guess in some ways you could say I’ve never actually killed any of the animals. And sure, maybe they might still have a bit of movement in them after the bolt, and maybe their heart still beats, but for all they talk about “stunning” or “irreversible brain damage”, pulling that trigger sure felt like killing to me.

There was another man who worked the floor, bleeding the animals. His name was Tom Haan, and I had never really spoke to him. For the longest time I wasn’t even sure how much English he spoke - he was from China, I think, and hardly ever said a word. The first time I really heard his voice was that day, the day it all started. I’d been feeling strange about work ever since I started on the killing floor, and had finally asked to be moved positions. Now, the official company policy was that any request to leave the killing floor has to be granted, but in practice no-one asks to be moved. It shows a weakness that most of the people working there aren’t comfortable with. I did it anyway, and had just received word that, from the following day, I was being moved to butchering the carcasses. I don’t remember how I felt. My feelings weren’t really working back then.

Anyway, it was as I was processing the last of the cows for that day that Tom Haan came over. I didn’t really pay him much attention, but he leaned close, gripped my shoulder and said to me in perfect English, “You cannot stop slaughter by closing the door.” I felt a chill pass through me, and I wanted to turn round and demand to know what he was talking about, but he’d already returned to the bleeding crew. I was a bit shaken for the rest of the day, and knowing that these were the last animals I’d need to actually kill made each pull of the trigger harder, not easier. I just turned off my mind and let my mechanical motions take over. Cow into the holding pen, lock its head in place, gun against temple, pull the trigger. Over and over again, until I felt like I was almost in a trance.

It was the silence that finally brought me back to myself. I was waiting for the next in the line of cattle to be herded into the room, and I noticed that I couldn’t hear anything. There wasn’t the scared lowing of the animals, the far-off whine of saws or the rumble of any one of the hundreds of machines that hum and churn to keep the abattoir running. I waited and waited, but no more cows came. Looking around I couldn’t see anyone. There was no clock in that room, nor did I wear a watch. A buzzer would usually sound when breaks rolled around, and I hadn’t heard anything.

No more cattle seemed to be coming, so I put down the bolt gun, and walked over towards the bleeding area. There was nobody there, and more than that, the place looked clean. Spotless. As though no blood had ever been spilled there. Had I stood there, passed out or something? Had the day ended and the place been cleaned and I hadn’t even noticed?

I headed towards the exit door, deciding that I’d either find someone to ask what was happening, or I’d just go home. The door opened onto a corridor that I didn’t recognise. It looked like any other corridor in the slaughterhouse, except that it wasn’t the one that lead towards the exit. I went to try the other doors that lead out of the killing floor, but none of them went to the places I remembered them going. Behind each was another hallway that seemed to lead deeper into the abattoir. I stood there for a few moments, and I genuinely pinched myself. I had to be dreaming or hallucinating or something. It wasn’t a dream, though, or a vision. Everything had changed, and I was somewhere new.

I surprised myself a bit with how quickly I accepted this situation. I went out the door I originally went towards, thinking that if I didn’t know the layout of this building, then I might as well start by trying to follow the old route out as much I could. The corridors just seemed to lead into each other, though, and soon I was completely lost. I did notice, though, that some of them appeared to have rails along the top, like those used to move the hanging carcasses. Some of them even had hooks on, shiny and clean. These rails would never normally follow the passages of the slaughterhouse like this, and that fact bothered me, though I’m not quite sure why.

I called out, at least at first, hoping that there was someone, somewhere in this maze, who might hear me and answer. There was nothing. Some doors led into empty rooms, containing only still clean machinery. Meat-bone separators, splitting saws, scald tanks, each standing there, shining and silent. Waiting. I didn’t hang around long in those rooms. As I said, I don’t wear a watch, so I don’t know how long I wandered. It felt like hours, though.

Eventually, I turned a corner to see a small, metal staircase spiralling upwards. I had no reason to think I was below ground level at all, but it was the first thing I had found that wasn’t just twisting corridors and silent rooms, so I went up. The stairs curved upwards for a very long time.

When I reached the next floor, my heart sank to see more corridors stretching away from me, though these ones all had the meat rails snaking along the ceilings, and many of them were unlit. I stayed out of the darker passages. One of them had a window looking out, and all I could see outside was a metal abattoir roof stretching away to the horizon. The sky was a dull pink - the colour of blood being washed into a drain. I left the window very quickly. Finally, by complete chance, I noticed a door I recognised. It was the dark green exit door that should lead out of the building. I didn’t even stop to consider that it might not lead outside; I just opened it and stepped through.

My feet didn’t land on the tarmac of the outside. They didn’t land on the concrete or metal or tile of the slaughterhouse floor, either. It was dark, so I didn’t immediately realise what I was treading on, except that it shifted slightly under my weight. I looked to either side, and saw the metal barriers penning me in, and the conveyor belt beneath me began to move. I realised where I was, where it would lead, and I screamed.

Turning to run, I almost expected a horde of cattle behind me, pressing me onwards as the runs are designed to make them, but there was nothing there, and I fled out the door. I slammed it behind me and… and I began to cry. It was like something numb within me had shattered, and I couldn’t… I just couldn’t.

It was as I sat there, collapsed against the wall, that I started to smell it. The coppery-sweet scent of blood. It had a strange sort of comfort to it, as it was the smell of the slaughterhouse as I had known it, before I found my way to wherever I was now. I began to follow it, just walking along, turning wherever the odour of blood was strongest. And it did get stronger, much stronger. As I turned corners and walked through dark rooms, the smell became thick, pungent, far more than it had ever been before. By the time I stood outside the dull steel door it came from, I could barely breath. From the other side came a loud, mechanical churning. I shouldn’t have opened it, but where else was I going to go?

It led to a small catwalk, around the edge of a large, circular room. No, large doesn’t do it justice. It was… immense. I could barely see the other side of it, far in the distance. All around the edges were the ends of conveyor belts, and I could see butchered carcasses rolling off them, feeding into the vast pit that took up the rest of the room. The pile of stinking, bloody bodies, more than I could count. Pigs, cattle, sheep, I think I even saw a few humans in the pile, though without heads or limbs it’s hard to tell the difference between them and pigs. The vast heap shifted and moved, as something mechanical far below chewed through it, but it was always being topped up, fed by those conveyor belts, carcasses falling limply on top of each other like dolls. I couldn’t see the bottom, though whatever was processing the pile was so loud as to almost drown out my thoughts.

What else could I do, but turn around once again, and run?

I don’t have the faintest idea how long I ran for. All I know is that eventually I fell to my knees in the dark and I lay there for a while. The sound and smell of the pit had faded away, and I began to hear another sound, the chunking thud of a bolt gun. At this point I was just about sick of following strange noises and smells around that goddamn place, so I turned around and started walking the other way. It didn’t help. Whichever way I went, the sound just seemed to get louder, echoing through the empty hallways.

When I opened the door back onto the killing floor, I just didn’t have any surprise left inside of me. Sitting there, in front of the stunning box, was Tom Haan. He was facing away from me, but I could see him, slowly and deliberately, placing the bolt gun against different parts of himself - his legs, his stomach, his shoulders - and pulling the trigger. By the time I reached him, he was little more than a mass of bleeding wounds. He mutely handed me the bolt gun and I took it. With his one working hand, he guided my arm until the gun rested against the centre of his forehead. But he didn’t make me fire it. I did that myself. He fell limp to the floor. I don’t know if he was dead, but I hope so. I’d hate it if that place had to bleed him.

The door behind him led to a corridor I recognised, and the next door I found marked ‘Exit’ opened to a sunny day so bright that I could barely see. There were people there, other workers, but no-one paid me any attention. I left the slaughterhouse, and didn’t go back. I kept expecting the police to call me about Tom, but I never heard his name mentioned again. Not even when I handed in my resignation. I wish I felt bad about his death, but I don’t. I don’t feel anything at all.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Hmm. More meat. Interesting. I had Sasha do some basic corroboration of the particulars of Mr. Laylow’s tale, and everything appears to be more or less accurate. He was employed by Aver Meats in Dalston from April 2010 to the 12th of July 2013, at which point left his post, which was confirmed to be the stunning the cattle for processing, in the middle of his shift, along with Thomas Haan, one of his colleagues. They left through the main entrance, ignoring the other workers, though no-one reported them acting strangely aside from that. Neither returned to the abattoir, and Tom Haan has not been seen since.

We contacted Mr. Laylow for a follow-up statement, which he gave readily enough, though it largely deals with his lingering problems eating meat, which I would say are symptoms of PTSD, but he has strongly declined to seek treatment.

Tim and Martin had a bit more luck investigating Tom Haan, though only really enough to confirm that he seems to have completely vanished following his departure from Aver Meats on the 12th of July. No missing person report was filed, and he appears to have had no friends or family. The landlord of the house he rented in Walthamstow, claims that the last rent he received from Haan was at the beginning of July. This landlord was quite put out when he disappeared, as apparently he had been renting a house in Clarence Road for almost a decade, and it was in quite a state of disrepair when he left.

Immigration authorities are somewhat useless. They have informed us that he missed a meeting with his advisor later that year, but it wasn’t until October, so gives us little to go on. His bank account has also registered no activity since July the 6th. No official effort has been made to locate him, and the police were reluctant to open a new case, so we didn’t push it.

There’s little else to be looked into, as Mr. Laylow’s description of an endless slaughterhouse is, to put it generously, unverifiable. That said, there have recently been moves by Aver Meats to extend their Dalston plant. They have planning permission, but are apparently having trouble retaining builders, four of which have already quit. Only one of them, Darren Lacey, agreed to talk to us, but all he would say to Tim was that the building “already seemed to be way too big.” And he said he couldn’t get over the smell of blood.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Lawrence Mortimer, regarding his hunting trip to Blue Ridge, Viginia. Original statement given December 9th, 2010. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I always wanted to go hunting. It always seemed such a manly sort of pursuit. I mean, killing the deer or elk or whatever else was always beside the point; it was just the idea of setting off into the wild, surviving out there, cooking and eating what you kill - it all sounded like such an adventure. I mean, I’d thought about trying it in this country, but shooting pheasants with shotguns and riding down foxes all seemed too much the domain of, uh, nitwits in tweed. So, if I was going to go hunting, I would need to go to another country to do it. Somewhere where they had a few animals worth going after. Thinking about it, I suppose that is what happened in the end, in a perverse sort of way. And it did cost poor Arden his life.

Well, my desire to go hunting was always something of ‘someday’ project. I’m sure you know what I mean: those ideas you have, holidays you plan to do ‘sometime in the future’, but they’re never time-dependent and usually you just keep putting them off for more pressing things. So when I turned fifty back in February, I thought, ‘dash it all, I’m going to go hunting before I drop dead!’ When I told my friends they all thought I’d gone loopy, but I just reminded them that it isn’t just the young that can be impetuous and daft.

Anyway, over the past few years I’d become great friends with an American. Arden Neeli was his name. We’d met on a sceptics message board and got on like a house on fire. When I mentioned I was looking into impetuous hunting trips, he asked how averse I was to hiking. I said not at all, I’ve a been a very active sort, and he told me that in Virginia, his home state, there were a lot of excellent places to go hunting, providing I didn’t mind waiting until October or November. I wasn’t exactly expecting the Grim Reaper to come knocking in the intervening months, so I told him it sounded lovely.

We spent a good long while discussing it, and finally decided to take a three day hike into Blue Ridge on the Appalachian Trail, and see if we could find a deer or an elk for me to shoot. Nature, seclusion and guns - to my ears it sounded just perfect.

So, early last month I packed my bags and caught a plane over to Virginia. The weather was cold but otherwise pleasant, and to be honest I was surprised how similar it felt to Torquay in November. I normally live in Torquay. I think I put that on your form there. If I did, it won’t hurt you to have it written down twice. I wasn’t, however, fully prepared to meet Arden in person. I’d never met an Internet friend in real life before, and he was far louder and more outgoing than I was prepared for, based on the well thought-out and considerate communications we had previously exchanged. He kept laughing at everything I said as though it was a joke, even when it wasn’t a joke, and would not stop going on about my accent.

Still, all was forgiven when he showed me his gun cabinet. They were beautiful, and while I’m a member of a few shooting clubs over here, you’ve always got to keep your rifles under lock and key, hidden away out of sight. To see a dozen, well-cared for weapons displayed proudly, well, it was just lovely.

We set out the following day, driving up to Blue Ridge from his home in Richmond. It took some time to get there, as everything is so much further apart in America, but we parked at Crabtree Falls shortly after midday. We had our tents and our supplies. I was very excited to don my hunters orange, and to take up my rifle. I was carrying a Winchester M70, which I had read was very good for beginners, while Arden carried a Remington Model 673, his preferred firearm, which he talked about to me at great length. And off we went up the trail.

Our first day was unsuccessful. I was something of a blundering presence, and though Arden was at pains to assure me that our failure was simply due to being too close to a road, I was sure that it was my own crashing footsteps scaring away the creatures. I mean, we hadn’t gone far compared to our proposed route, but we were already several miles from the nearest road.

As the day wore on, we began to look for somewhere to set up camp. We were attempting to “Leave No Trace”, as the Americans say, so we were likely going to set our tents up on the trail itself, but as we began to get them out I heard the strangest thing. It sounded like somebody whistling, a slow version of The Farmer in the Dell or, as I believe it’s more commonly known, A-Hunting We Shall Go.

I looked over, and by the expression of puzzlement on Arden’s face it was clear he heard it as well. I was just about to call out to whoever was whistling, when a figure wandered very casually through the treeline and onto the trail. He walked out of thick woodland as though he were strolling down a promenade. He was short and lean, with long, shaggy black hair and a slightly unkempt goatee. His clothes were the rugged, durable sort you’d expect to see on a hiker, but he had no jacket or coat. He carried no backpack or kit of any sort. In fact it seemed like he was just wandering through the woods with the clothes on his back.

Arden was quicker to pick up on this than I was and asked the man if he needed any help. The hiker stared at him for several long seconds, as though trying to deduce something, then smiled and said, “No”. I didn’t like that smile one bit. Far too many teeth to it, I’d say. He asked us where we were heading, how long we were on the trail for. There was something ever so slightly odd about his intonation, and he dragged the Rs somehow when he spoke. We answered as vaguely as we could without being rude, since neither of us felt comfortable near this man.

The hiker shrugged, and started to walk across the trail, between us. As he did so, he paused for a second, and took a deep breath, and it seemed for all the world like he was sniffing us. Then he said something, I forget exactly. “Tomorrow will be a good day for a run,” or something like that. And then he just started whistling again, and wandered off into the forest behind us. I think both myself and Arden wanted to stop him, it was so clear something wasn’t right with the situation, but we were both… astounded with his manner and I don’t think either of us could have thought of how to do so. And then he was gone.

I needn’t tell you that sleep came difficult. The sounds of the forest at night were far louder than I had ever heard them back home, and every cracking branch, every rustle of leaves, set my nerves on edge. It was an overcast night, and outside the tent was almost completely dark. Around two o’clock in the morning I could have sworn that I heard someone laugh, slow and softly, outside my tent. It sound like it was right by my head, just the other side of the thin nylon wall. By the time I’d managed to get up the courage to check, of course, there was nobody there.

The next day we packed up the camp and set off hunting again, donning our lurid orange vests and rifles. I must admit, I felt ten times better with the weight of the gun in my arms, and was inclined to put the events of the night before behind me. In fact, after a morning spent walking and joking and, on two occasions, damn near bagging an elk, I thought we were both having a splendid time.

It was about four in the afternoon, the sun just starting to begin its descent towards an early autumn dusk, when I saw my elk. I don’t know why, but when I saw him through the trees I knew that he was mine. I told Arden and we started to creep towards it very slowly. He had been teaching me since yesterday, and it wasn’t long before I had my position, and raised my gun. I sighted it just below the ear, and there was a moment, when its head turned right towards me. I could have sworn it looked me in the eye as I prepared to pull the trigger.

A gunshot rang out, but it was not from my gun. The elk startled and ran, and I spun round, but Arden was nowhere to be seen. The shot still echoed through the trees, but he seemed to have vanished. I began to search frantically for him. Had he… Had he been lured away by an elk of his own? Had he been accidentally shot by some other hunters? I called out his name, but there was no reply.

Eventually, after several minutes of desperate searching, I came to a small clearing. There, slumped against one of the trees was Arden. He was dead. The tree behind him was painted in a spray of crimson, and there was a messy hole in the centre of his throat, as though it had been torn out entirely. His rifle lay next to him on the ground, also coated in blood. It seems silly to say now, but my first thought was to check his pulse. So I put my gun down to do so. Obviously he didn’t have one, but I couldn’t understand what was happening. I’d been with him not three minutes before and he had been alive and unharmed. It didn’t make sense.

Then I heard that whistling. That infernal whistling from the treeline. I turned and there was the hiker. His right hand was coated in Arden’s blood, and he grinned at me. Then he began to sprint. His speed was incredible, and he loped from side to side with a sort of zigzag motion. I ran. I know I should have picked up my gun, but you can’t understand just how frightening it is to have something like that, a true predator, running at you full pelt. Your death charging towards you like freight train. You can’t understand what it is to be prey. So I ran.

I turned tail, leaving my pack and my gun behind, and sprinted into the woods. I didn’t look back, I couldn’t. It took all my concentration to keep my footing, to not trip. I could hear him occasionally behind me, as he charged through a bush or scratched against a tree. I think he did it deliberately, you know. To let me know he was still there. There’s no way I could have won that footrace, but I think he must have been toying with me. After a while I could no longer hear him directly behind me, so I slowed to catch my breath. I’m in good shape, as I say, but I’m not a young man and I was dizzy with the exhaustion.

I sat there, so intent on listening out for any sign of danger, of this man, that I barely even noticed night fall. There were no clouds that night, and I was glad, since I had left my torch along with my pack. If I was to run at all during the night, I would need the moonlight to see by. Of course, any experienced hiker would tell you never to travel the woods at night, and certainly not to run through them, but I hardly had any choice if it came to it. And of course it did. The night was barely half an hour old when I heard it again, that… whistling, then the words floating through the trees, but with an low, bass tone to them. “A-hunting we shall go, A-hunting we shall go”.

And once again I ran. By all rights I should have broken my neck, charging off into the darkness like that. I should have tripped on a root or put my foot in a rabbit hole. I should have at least twisted my ankle. Somehow this didn’t happen, though; I ran and ran and, well, I just kept running. It didn’t seem to do me any good, of course. I was still far slower in the dark than I had been during the day, and it was obvious my pursuer could easily outpace me if he wanted to. So many times I’d hear that song coming from in front of me, and turned sharply to avoid it, until I was utterly lost.

Finally, I broke through the treeline. I thought at first I’d found another clearing, but looking down, I saw I was next to Arden’s mutilated body. The wretched thing had just sent me in a circle. For fun. For the chase. I was tired, scared, covered in scratches and bruises over my entire body, and for nothing. I was still going to die.

I turned to face my fate, and for the first time that night got a good look at my hunter. The moonlight shone on him in full and what I saw was not human. It’s hard to describe exactly, but everything about him was sharper. His fingers, his teeth, his face, his eyes. His skin.

As I looked at him, the strangest thing popped into my head. Have you ever read The Duchess of Malfi? I had to study it for my O-Levels, many years ago. Dreadful play, as I remember, the worst sort of old revenge tragedy, all incest and murder and madness. But there’s a line that stays with me, a doctor diagnosing the Duchess’ brother with lycanthropy. As I recall it goes, “Once met the duke, ‘bout midnight in a lane behind St. Mark’s church, with the leg of a man upon his shoulder. Said he was a wolf. Only difference was, a wolf’s skin is hairy on the outside, his on the inside”. Looking at this thing that wanted to kill me, it’s the only way it’s the only description that feels right.

He didn’t charge this time, but slowly stalked towards me. I was… acutely aware of the loaded guns by my feet, but I’d seen how fast it could move and I didn’t rate my chances. It got close. Close enough that I could smell the foetid breath. Close enough that I could see the most disturbing thing illuminated by the moonlight: the slick drool on its lips as it salivated in anticipation of a kill. Then it attacked me.

I am, in some ways, very proud of how I acted during that encounter. You see, as long as the thing didn’t think I was any sort of threat, I hoped it might get sloppy and clearly telegraph its strike. I was right; it drew back its arm and swung a clumsy, triumphant blow. I forget, did I mention my military background? Well, I used to be an officer in the Air Force. Now, it’s been a long time since the Gulf War, and I didn’t do much in the way of hand-to-hand fighting even then, but the training is something that stays with you. It certainly served me well for this one, desperate move, as I caught his arm and pitched his motion around. His claws dug into my shoulder, but missed my neck, and he fell to the floor, tripped by his own momentum. He began to get to his feet almost immediately, but it brought me the precious seconds to grab my rifle and press it to his chest. I didn’t hesitate.

The shot ripped through him and he jerked in pain. Not wanting to take any chances, I fired again and again and again until my rifle was empty. Then I picked up Arden’s rifle and emptied that one into him as well.

Even after all of that, he still wasn’t dead. He had three bullets in his heart, two in his head and many more through the rest of him, but still he writhed there, making weak noises. I didn’t know how long this would slow him down for, but I hoped it would give me enough time to escape properly. I looked back as I left the clearing to see him slowly and painfully pushing his claws into his chest, digging for the bullets.

It was luck that saved me, in the end. Some park rangers were driving past our trail on a road about two miles distant. They were coming to investigate the gunshots and I stumbled on to the road through sheer good fortune. I never saw that thing again, or Arden, unfortunately, though they managed to find and recover his body about a week later. I don’t think I’ll try hunting again. I know the thrill of power that comes with the ability to end the life of something weaker than you, but… I can’t forget what it’s like to be the hunted.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Hunted. Yes, I think I’m starting to know the feeling.

Arden Neeli was found dead half a mile off the Appalachian Trail in Virginia on 1st December 2010. His death was ruled a wild animal attack. Mr. Mortimer was treated for physical and mental trauma, but was not implicated in his death. Quite frankly that’s all the investigation I’m willing to do on this one. ‘Wolfmen in America’ is too far-fetched and too far away for me to care about.

It’s… been two months now since Martin returned and we became the ones being… hunted. Are we being hunted? Martin’s still living here, and I’m leaving less and less. The worms keep turning up. We kill them, but there are more each week. What is she waiting for?

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jane Prentiss, regarding… a wasps’ nest in her attic. Original statement given February 23rd, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I itch all the time. Deep beneath my skin, where the bone sits, enshrined in flesh, I feel it. Something, not moving but that wants to move. Wants to be free. It itches, and I don’t think I want it. I don’t know what to do.

You can’t help me. I don’t think so, at least. But whatever it is that calls to me, that wants me for its own, it hates you. It hates what you are and what you do. And if it hates you, then maybe you can help me. If I wanted to be helped. I don’t know if I do. You must understand, it sings so sweetly, and I need it, but I am afraid. It isn’t right and I need help. I need it to be seen. To be seen in the cold light of knowledge is anathema to the things that crawl and slither and swarm in the corners and the cracks. In the pitted holes of the hive.

You can’t see it, of course. It isn’t real. Not like you or I are real. It’s more of an everywhere. A feeling. Are you familiar with trypophobia? That disgusted fear at holes, irregular, honeycombed holes. Makes you feel that itch in the back of your mind, like the holes are there too, in your own brain, rotten and hollow and swarming. Is that real?

I’m sorry, I know I’m meant to be telling you what happened. What brought me to this place. This place of books and learning, of sight and beholding. I’m sorry. I should. I will.

I… I haven’t slept in some time. I can’t sleep. My dreams are crawling and many-legged. Not just slithering and burrowing,. though it is the burrowing that draws me. They always sing that song of flesh. I hope you will forgive me for such a rambling story. I hope you will forgive me for a great many things, as it may be I do worse. I have that feeling, that instinct that squirms through your belly. There will be great violence done here. And I bleed into that violence.

Do you know, I wonder? As I watch you sitting there through the glass. Eating a sandwich. Do you know where you are? You called me “dear”. “Have a seat, dear.” “You can write it down, dear.” “Take as much time as you need, dear.” Can you truly know the danger you are in?

There is a wasps’ nest in my attic. A fat, sprawling thing that crouches in the shadowed corner. It thrums with life and malice. I could sit there for hours, watching the swirls of pulp and paper on its surface. I have done. It is not the patterns that enthral me, I’m not one of those fools chasing fractals; no, it’s what sings behind them. Sings that I am beautiful. Sings that I am a home. That I can be fully consumed by what loves me.

I don’t know how long the nest has been there. It’s not even my house, I just live there. Some sweaty old man thinks he owns it, taking money for my presence as though it will save him. I used to worry about it, you know. I remember, before the dreams, I would spend so long worrying about that money. About how I could afford to live there. Now I know that whatever the old man thinks, as he passes about the house with brow crinkled and mouth puckered in disapproval, it is not his. It has a thousand truer owners who shift and live and sing within the very walls of the building. He does not even know about the wasps’ nest. I wonder how long he has not known. How many years it has been there.

Have you ever heard of the filarial worm? Mosquitoes gift it with their kiss and it grows and grows. It stops water moving round the human body right, makes limbs and bellies swell and sag with fluid. Now, when I look at that fat, sweaty sack, I think about it, and the voice sings of showing him what a real parasite can do.

How many months has it been like this? Was there a time before? There must have been. I remember a life that was not itching, not fear, not nectar-sweet song. I had a job. I sold crystals. They were clean, and sharp and bright and they did not sing to me, though I sometimes said they did. We would sell the stones to smiling young couples with colour in their hair. I remember, before I found the nest, someone new came. His name was Oliver, and he would look at me so strangely. Not with lust or affection or contempt, but with sadness. Such a deep sadness. And once with fear. It didn’t matter, because no-one in the shop wanted to hear about the ants below it. I tried to tell them, to explain, but they did not care. The pretty young things complained and I left.

That was when I still called myself a witch. Wicca and paganism, I would spend my weekends at rituals by the Thames. I wanted something beyond myself, but could not stomach the priest or the imam or pujari of the churches. I knew better. I knew that it was not so simple as to call out to well-trodden gods. I never felt from my rituals anything except exhaustion and pride. I thought that those were my spiritual raptures.

I wish, deep inside, below the itch, that they were still my raptures. I have touched something now, though, that all my talk of ley lines and mother goddesses could never have prepared me for. It is not a god. Or if it is then it is a dead god, decayed and clammy corpse-flesh brimming with writhing graveworms.

When did I first hear it? It wasn’t the nest, I’m sure of that. I never went in the attic. It was locked and I didn’t have a key. I spent a day sawing through the padlock with an old hacksaw. My hands were blistered by the end. Why would I have done that if I didn’t know what I would find? The face of the one who sang to me dwelling within the hidden darkness above me. I had seen no wasps. I know I hadn’t. There are no wasps in the nest. So how else would I have known that I needed to be there, to be in the dark with it, if it had not already been singing to me?

No, that’s not right. The nest does not sing to me. It is simply the face. Not the whole face, for the whole of the hive is infinite. An unending plane of wriggling forms swarming in and out of the distended pores and honeycombed flesh. The nest is nothing but paper.

Was it the spiders? There were webs in the corners, around the entryway into the attic. I would watch them scurry and disappear in between the wooden boards. ‘Where are you going, little spiders?’ I would think. ‘What are you seeing in the dark? Is it food? Prey? Predators?’ I wondered if it was the spiders that made the gentle buzzing song. It was not. Webs have a song as well, of course, but it is not the song of the hive.

I used to pick at my skin. It was a compulsion. I would spend hours in the bathroom, staring as close as I could get to my face to the mirrors, searching for darkened pores to squeeze and watch the congealed oil worm its way out of my skin. Often I would end with swollen red marks where it had become inflamed with irritation or infection. Did I hear the song then?

Was it when I was a child, such a clear memory of a classmate telling me a blackhead was a hole in my face, and if I didn’t keep it clean it would grow and rot. Did I hear it then, as that image lodged in my mind forever? Or was it last year, passing by a strip of green they call a park near my house, after the rain, and watching a hundred worms crawl and squirm to the surface.

Perhaps I’ve always heard it. Perhaps the itch has always been the real me, and it was the happy, smiling Jane who called herself a witch and drank wine in the park when it was sunny. Maybe it was her who was the maddened illusion the hides the sick squirming reality of what I am. Of what we all are, when you strip away the pretence that are there is more to a person than a warm, wet habitat for the billion crawling things that need a home. That love us in their way.

I need to think. To clear my head. To try and remember, but remember what? I was lonely before. I know that. I had friends, at least I used to, but I lost them. Or they lost me. Why was it? I remember shouting, recriminations, and I was abandoned. No idea why. The memories are a blur. I do remember that they called me “toxic”. I don’t think I really knew what that meant, except that it was the reason I was so very painfully lonely. Was that it? Was I swayed and drawn simply by the prospect of being genuinely loved? Not loved as you would understand it. A deeper, more primal love. A need as much as a feeling. Love that consumes you in all ways.

You can’t help me. I’m sure of that now. I have tried to write it down, to put it into terms and words you could understand. And now I stare at it and not a word of it is even enough to fully describe the fact that I itch. Because ‘itch’ is not the right word. There is no right word because for all your Institute and ignorance may laud the power of the word, it cannot even stretch to fully capture what I feel in my bones. What possible recourse could there be for me in your books and files and libraries except more useless ink and dying letters? I see now why the hive hates you. You can see it and log it and note it’s every detail but you can never understand it. You rob it of its fear even though your weak words have no right to do so.

I do not know why the hive chose me, but it did. And I think that it always had. The song is loud and beautiful and I am so very afraid. There is a wasps’ nest in my attic. Perhaps it can soothe my itching soul.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

This is… uh…

Excuse me, reading that was, um… hmm. While I am pleased that we have… found the statement that Prentiss gave the Institute, it answers far fewer of our questions than I would have hoped, and gives us little new information about her than we had before, save for a snapshot of her mental condition before her hospital admission. We were already aware of her religious history, and her breakdown over an ant infestation that apparently led to her termination from her work at the Good Energies spiritual supplies shop in Archway.

The wasps’ nest is interesting. The paramedics report claims that when they and the police responded to reports of screaming at Miss Prentiss’ flat on Prospero Road, they found her in a loft space, passed out, with her forearm buried up to the elbow in “pulped organic matter”. This could indeed have been a wasps’ nest, I suppose, but no nearby residents reported to have seen any wasps in the area. Unfortunately, it could not be examined further, as later that night, there was a fire that completely destroyed the flat, and killed the landlord, Arthur Nolan. The fire service determined he had fallen asleep with a lit cigarette, due to the fact that he was found sitting in the remains of an armchair, with no sign he had made any attempt to escape.

Miss Prentiss was taken to the Emergency Department at Whittington Hospital, but she was already showing signs of the… infestation that would characterise her later appearances. Six hospital staff were attempting to treat and sedate her, when many of the worms were violently expelled from her body. They quickly burrowed through the soft tissue of the medical personnel - eyes, tongue, et cetera - and into the brain, killing them after roughly a minute and a half. She then walked calmly out of the door to A&E. A nurse attempted to run, but in his panic he tripped on the stairs and broke his neck. Then she was gone. The Institute was consulted, as apparently during her admission she had claimed that she was being possessed, but it was decided the situation was medical in nature and our involvement was dropped in favour of, what I can only describe, as a cover-up. If we’d known about this statement, perhaps things might have been different, but here we are.

Still, anyone who’s familiarised themselves with her file could tell you this. We still don’t have any evidence that Prentiss is actually paranormal. It could just be an unknown, aggressive parasite. There are weird things out there that are perfectly natural. It’s not, though. I know it’s not natural. Somehow I… I feel it. I’m sorry, my academic detachment seems to have fled me. Something in this statement has got to me a bit. I’m… I’m going to go lie down.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Look, Tim, I’d love to discuss this further, but as you can see, I have a recording to do.

TIM
Oh, come on. Look, it’s not a big deal. We just need to do a few of them again.

ARCHIVIST
Out of the question.

TIM
It’s just confusing if not. Er, like the garbageman’s statement.

ARCHIVIST
Mr. Woodward.

TIM
Yeah, so, you said that Alan Parfitt was reported missing… ah, in August 2009, which would actually be six months after the statement had been given.

ARCHIVIST
Obviously it should have been 2008. I misspoke an ‘8’ as a ‘9’. What does it matter?

TIM
Well, someone noticed.

ARCHIVIST
Who?

TIM
Er, Josh Cole - great guy - he’s one of the students using our resources for a dissertation. Um… oh, and here, in Miss Montauk’s statement about her father’s killings. You refer to case, um, 9220611 as case, um, 1106922. Oh, and don’t get me started on the other case numbers around the Hill Top hauntings, they’re a mess!

ARCHIVIST
Alleged hauntings. And who honestly cares if I misspoke case 9220611 as 1106922? Another student?

TIM
Well, actually, yes. Um, Samantha Emery - she’s lovely - she’s actually doing a PhD in manifestations…

ARCHIVIST
I don’t care. It’s not enough that Gertrude left us with such a pointlessly awkward filing system. Half the time she doesn’t even stay consistent in her own records.

TIM
To be honest with you, er, I don’t really understand the system.

ARCHIVIST
Last three digits of the year, then the day, then the month. I don’t know why she did it like that, but I can’t change it now.

TIM
Oh… okay… Alright, so what happens if more than one statement is given on the same day?

ARCHIVIST
I… don’t know. It never came up. Was there anything else?

TIM
Oh yeah, just one.

ARCHIVIST
Good lord.

TIM
So, in case 8163103 it isn’t clear if Albrecht’s wife is called ‘Clara’ or ‘Carla’ ‘cause you keep switching back and forth…

ARCHIVIST
Well, I’m sorry if I found it hard to read a 200-year old letter, written in cursive by a native German speaker. Who complained about that one?

TIM
Oh, it’s, it’s not a complaint. I just noticed actually. Um, look I know you’ve been under a lot of pressure… it’s not a big deal, I just think it might be worth re-recording these statements.

ARCHIVIST
No. I don’t have time. I still have a mountain of haphazard statements to get through, not to mention that I need to keep this wretched tape recorder on hand just in case I encounter one of the files too stubborn to work on anything else. And when I do, I have to actually read the damn thing, which is…

TIM (BACKGROUND)
Oh, woah, woah… woah!

ARCHIVIST
Fine. It’s fine. I just haven’t been sleeping much these last few months, what with all this… worm business. Which reminds me, if you do see Elias, tell him thanks for the extra extinguishers.

TIM
Oh, yeah. Yeah, sure.

It’s getting bad. I mean, Martin keeps showing me his tongue and asking if it “looks infested”. Um. So what do you want me to do about these errors?

ARCHIVIST
I really don’t care. Put a Post-It on the tapes or something. I’m not re-recording them. Now if you’ll excuse me…

TIM
Oh, yeah, sure, yep, I’ll let you get back to it.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Right. Oh, still running? Okay.

Statement of Carlita Sloane, regarding her work on a container ship travelling to Southampton from Porto do Itaqui. Original statement given January the 2nd, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’ve been working the shipping routes for years now, so I know there’s plenty of messed up things can happen out there. You remember the old saying ‘worse things happen at sea’? Well, let me tell you it’s just as true now as it ever was. But I’ve never seen weird like I saw when serving on the Tundra. I didn’t even want the job, really, but I didn’t have a lot of choice. We’d just hit Porto do Itaqui in Brazil in late November of last year when the ship I was on got stopped because of ‘cargo irregularities’. I don’t know what it was. Might have been drugs, human trafficking, might have just been a crooked harbour master looking for a kickback, but it didn’t really matter. Point was I had to jump ship.

This wasn’t an easy thing, though. A sailor’s union should be recognised anywhere in the world, but when it came down to it, my membership of Nautilus, a UK union, meant nothing when I was trying to get a place on a cargo run coming out of Brazil. Didn’t help that I’m a woman. A lot of people don’t think shipping is a job for women. Hell, a lot of people who work on ships don’t think it is. You don’t see a lot of us in the trade, and every ounce of respect I got, some dick-waving asshole probably bled for. But that’s fine, I can hold my own, and it hasn’t been such a problem since I shaved my head. It was enough to keep me on land for a good few days, though, as I tried to find another ship to take me on. Well, that and my bad Spanish.

I’m sure I don’t need to tell you how relieved I was when I heard that a British ship had made port. The Tundra. Now at that point I was starting to get a bit desperate, so I was keen to go to the captain and just about beg passage. Screw my qualifications, if needed I’d sign on as a workaway. I could find a better position once I was somewhere I spoke the language properly.

I eventually found the captain in a small bar in one of the seedier areas of the dockside. I’d been told his name was Peter Lukas, but to be honest I wouldn’t have needed his name - he was the only white guy in the place. Even by those standards he was very pale, weirdly so for someone who apparently lived their life on the sea. He sat there at a small table, completely alone, drinking a cup of black coffee. He was staring into the distance, and didn’t seem to notice anything going on around him. I sat down opposite and coughed.

His eyes only moved a fraction of an inch to focus on me, but it felt as though the movement had the weight of a heavy stone door. Like a tomb. Don’t know why that’s what popped into my head, but there you go. I asked if he was Peter Lukas, and he said, “Yes”. I’d gone blank on what to say next, and it was then that I noticed the silence. I looked around to see that the place was now completely empty. Even the bartender was nowhere to be seen, and the only sound was the whir of the ceiling fans above us. The captain was still staring at me, so I swallowed my unease and began to explain my situation to him. I left out the part about the criminal possibilities of my last ship, but was clear that I was in desperate need of a new post. When I had finished, he was quiet for a few minutes. Then he nodded.

“We have one space. Report tomorrow. At dawn.”

That was all he said. And it was all I needed. The Tundra wasn’t difficult to find when I headed to the docks the next day. It was big, already stacked high with an array of colourful shipping containers. I wondered if they’d loaded it up overnight, as there didn’t seem to be much activity from the crane. It was early, and I was glad I was leaving Brazil before the wet season really got going, as the sky was threatening to break. Making my way through the dock I asked around until I was finally pointed to the mate. He was a short man, heavy set with a thick, black beard. His warm, brown skin was stained darker by a life working in the sun, and he didn’t smile when he looked at me. Around his neck, I saw a chain ending in a small brass ball and stem. It looked like an old boatswain’s call, an antique sailor’s whistle.

I introduced myself, told him what I’d told the captain and gave my qualifications and experience. The bearded mate listened quietly until I finished. Then he shrugged, and said they were in need of an Ordinary Seaman, and I was welcome to the position if I wanted it. OS was a bit of a step down for me, as I’ve been pulling Able Seaman pay for these last few years, but it was a ticket out of Porto do Itaqui, so I jumped at the chance. The mate still didn’t smile, but he did offer his hand and introduced himself in a gentle Dutch accent as Tadeas Dahl, First Mate of the Tundra. I was surprised, as it seemed a bit abrupt to be leaving, and I hadn’t even had time to stow away the duffel bag that was my only luggage. Still, I wasn’t about to disobey the first order I’d been given on a new ship.

The Tundra was pretty normal. I’ve served on a half dozen ships almost identical to it, and I fell into my duties quickly. We set off almost as soon as I was on board, and it was only later I discovered we were heading across the Atlantic towards Southampton. I was very happy to find that out, as I had assumed we’d be making plenty more stops before crossing back to England. With any luck it wouldn’t be more than a couple of weeks before I was home, and those would be spent in maintenance, repainting and taking watches with ‘Iron Mike’, the autopilot.

So that was fine, but I did start to notice a few things on board which didn’t really seem to add up. The first was the crew. They were quiet. Very quiet. I mean, I’ve been on ships where I was pretty much the only native English speaker, and plenty of people prefer to keep to themselves. Hell, not being too comfortable around people is a damn fine reason to go to sea. This was different, though.

It wasn’t just that they didn’t talk much, they seemed uncomfortable with me. They’d avoid eye contact, and only barely acknowledge me if we were on a shift together. As first, I thought it was because I was a woman, but then I saw that it wasn’t just me. They avoided each other just as much as they did me. Meals were always quiet, no matter how many people were eating, and there was no friendly games of cards or chat in living quarters. There was no real conversation in any language. It was like they were doing everything in their power not to think about each other. It took me less than a day of ignored hellos and grunted answers before I fell into line, becoming just as quiet as my crewmates.

The only person who spoke was Tadeas Dahl. The mate would walk among the crew, giving instructions and orders in a dozen different languages, as the crew scrambled to carry out his commands. He was just as composed as he had been when I met him, and it soon became clear that, if he had emotions, he kept a tight wrap on them. He would stride along the ship, his antique whistle swinging from his neck. He never actually blew the boatswain’s call, apparently preferring to summon the crew via the intercom or horn. It just hung there, its polished brass heavy around his neck. I didn’t see Captain Lukas at all that first week. I only knew he was onboard because every meal time the cooks would hand a tray of food to the mate, who’d take it up to the captain’s cabin. We never saw the man himself, though.

There was one crewmember who did catch my eye. He was a young guy, white and, from what I could tell, Scottish. I never really got more than his name out of him: Sean Kelly. He had the bunk opposite me, and we were on different shifts, so I would often see him lying there when I returned from my night watch. He didn’t talk any more than the others, but he also didn’t go around with that blank look on his face. He looked scared.

There were other odd things about the ship, but hands down the weirdest thing, I didn’t notice until a few days out into the Atlantic. Now one of my duties was to check the deck containers were securely in place, none of the twistlocks or lashing rods had broken or come loose. It was usually just busywork - I’d never been on a ship that lost a container, though it does happen. This shift, though, I noticed something wrong. I saw that one of the lashing rods, towards the stern, had broken. And not at one of the ends, or the twistlock itself, but right in the middle of what should have been solid metal. From a distance it looked fine, new paint shining in the sun, but looking closer I saw that it had rusted all the way through. Not just that, but checking out where the rod connected to the container, it became clear that they had rusted together. Fresh paint covered up most of it, but once I knew what I was looking for, I saw it everywhere. The shipping containers, all of them, were rusted in place. How could this have happened, though, if they were being changed over at port? How long had the Tundra been sailing with the same cargo?

I decided I had to look inside. Stupid, maybe. If it was something illegal, they might toss me overboard first and ask questions never, but only if I got caught. And I was just about sick of nasty surprises.

I did it on my next late shift. I kept an eye on the rest of the crew and waited for my moment. I’d already marked out a ground level container where the padlock had practically rusted off. It wouldn’t be difficult to get it open. It was about 3am when I had my chance. I was alone on deck and the wind was howling loud enough to muffle the groan of the container’s rusted hinges. It took three kicks from my steel toecaps to get it open, but finally I was able to get the door ajar. It was so stiff it took almost all my strength to get enough of a gap to walk through, but finally I could see inside.

It was completely empty. There was no sign of cargo, or any markings or debris on the floor that might have shown there had ever been anything inside. I couldn’t believe it, a transport ship with nothing to transport? It didn’t make any sense. I managed to bust two other containers open, but they were the same. As far as I could tell, every container on the ship was empty.

I was still trying to figure out what this could mean when I saw a couple of torches approaching. I almost panicked and ran, but where exactly was I going to escape to? The empty, uncaring ocean stretched out for hundreds of miles in every direction. So instead I swallowed my fear, and pushed the door carefully closed, trying my best to hide the broken lock before making my way onto the deck.

I was met by the mate and a half dozen other crewmen behind him. He looked at me for a second, then nodded and told me to follow, then he continued walking. Confused, I headed after them as they made their way around the ship, silently collecting up or waking all the rest of the crew. I started to ask what was going on, but the glares I got shut me right up. Finally, when we had what looked like the whole crew together, we walked over to the lifeboat.

Now we definitely weren’t sinking, so I hadn’t really paid much attention to the lifeboat before, but now I looked at it, I realised it wasn’t what I’d have expected. Most modern container ships have a lifeboat that looks more like a lumpy orange blob than a boat. They’re designed to be quickly and safely dropped into the water and tough out whatever conditions the sea might throw at them. But this was an old fashioned boat, with oars and a winch mechanism for lowering it into the water. It didn’t even look like it had any supplies in it. Standing there in front of it was Captain Lukas, as silent as the rest of his crew.

The Captain nodded, and one by one the crew of the Tundra got on board the lifeboat. I got on too. I mean, what else was I supposed to do? I didn’t know what was going on and no-one seemed to want to tell me, but I sure as hell wasn’t getting left alone on that big empty ship. So I got in and sat down, as a couple of the crew began to lower the lifeboat into the sea. A few others took up the oars, and as soon as we hit the water, they began to row quietly away from the Tundra, which floated, motionless.

The sky was clear and the wind had died down, so the stars reflected perfectly on the still ocean surface. All the lights on the ship had been turned off, so the world and all the empty horizon was only lit by the moon. As we rowed, I looked around my companions on the lifeboat. Everyone I recognised was there, except for one. I checked each face in turn, but I could see no sign of Sean Kelly, my scared bunkmate. Had we left him behind? Was he still back on the ship, sleeping away ignorant of the fact that he was now utterly and completely alone?

Almost as though he knew I was about to speak, Tadeas gave me a warning glare. The mate reached down and took the old brass whistle from his neck. He pressed it to his lips, and blew.

I have never heard a whistle sound like that. It was shrill, so high and piercing that I felt my hair stand on end, but it also seemed distant. Like I was hearing it from far, far away. I don’t know how long he blew that boatswain’s call for, but by the end, I realised we were surrounded by thick sea smoke. We should have far too far south for it, but it rolled and billowed around the lifeboat, obscuring the Tundra. No-one said a word, but I could have sworn a few of my shipmates were crying.

I don’t know how long we floated there, sat in the dark water, but eventually the fog cleared and the mate sounded the boatswain’s call again, this time a short, sharp whistle. We saw the Tundra, dark and still upon the water, and began to row back towards it. The lifeboat was painstakingly raised and the rest of the crew returned to their positions. Sean Kelly was nowhere to be seen. And I never saw him again.

After that night, the atmosphere on board changed. People talked, and you’d occasionally hear actual laughter on board. Games were played, people drank, and there was this sense of relief to it all. I tried to join in, but got dark looks any time I asked about Sean. At one point the third mate, a man named Kim Duong, told me that I should shut up and be grateful, as it hadn’t been “an easy choice”.

I kept to myself the rest of the way, and left the ship as soon as we landed in Southampton. I didn’t even think about my pay until it came through a couple of days later: twenty-five thousand pounds. For barely two weeks work. I don’t mind telling you, it was almost enough to tempt me back.

Almost.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

An interesting statement, though difficult to investigate any potentially paranormal activity, as there does not appear to have been anything explicitly supernatural occurring in this statement. A lot of strange happenings and implicit weirdness, but nothing that can be isolated as a ‘supernatural event’. There’s also the fact that even a casual search of port authority records shows the Tundra is a currently active cargo ship operating for Solus Shipping PLC, a company founded and majority owned by Nathaniel Lukas. In addition to such business ventures, the Lukas family also provides funding to several academic and research organisations, including the Magnus Institute. Much as I want to dig further into this, especially given certain parallels with case 0161301, Elias gets very twitchy when we look into anything that might conceivably have funding repercussions.

It doesn’t look like I’m going to be able to do any further investigations into this. Even though the official crew manifest for the Tundra has remained the same for the last ten years. Even though I can’t find any record of actual cargo being loaded or unloaded into it from any UK port. Even though Sean Kelly disappeared from the port of Felixstowe in October 2010, and his body washed up on the coast of Morocco in April 2011, six months later. According to the coroner, it had only been in the water for five days. Maybe I’ll mention it to Elias. Just in case.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Apologies for the somewhat archaic -

DR. ELLIOTT
No need to worry, I understand. Some things you just can’t trust to computers. It’s like I always say about those robotic surgery machines. It’s just not the same. If I’m going to be operating on a man’s pancreas, I want to feel that pancreas. Fiddling with a joystick just won’t cut it. As it were.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t think you still performed surgery?

DR. ELLIOTT
I keep up with the developments. And I remember the feel of a pancreas.

ARCHIVIST
Well… quite. Now, if you’d be so good as to -

DR. ELLIOTT
You know you have an infestation, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST
Excuse me? I’m not sure -

DR. ELLIOTT
Yes, little, grey, maggot things. I saw a few on the way in. Don’t recognise the species, but I’d say you need to get the exterminators in here. Gas the little blighters.

ARCHIVIST
You saw them? You weren’t bitten were you?

DR. ELLIOTT
Bitten? They’re worms. Still, I’ll admit I didn’t like the look of them. I reckon the sooner you get someone in to kill them dead, the better.

ARCHIVIST
We’ve tried, believe me. Now, shall we?

DR. ELLIOTT
Oh, certainly. Where do want me to start? The bones? The blood? The… uh… the fruit?

ARCHIVIST
Right from the beginning. One second.

DR. ELLIOTT
Statement of Dr. Lionel Elliott, regarding a series of events that took place during his class…

DR. ELLIOTT
Introduction to Human Anatomy and Physiology.

ARCHIVIST
At King’s College, London, in early 2016.

Statement recorded direct from subject 12th July, 2016. Statement begins.

DR. ELLIOTT
Now?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, just start from the beginning.

DR. ELLIOTT
Right. Well, I shouldn’t even have been teaching the class, really. As far as I knew, I wasn’t going to be needed for any teaching on the Biomedical Engineering course this year. I can’t say I was particularly upset. The Human Anatomy module is where a lot of the engineers discover just how messy the human body is, and while the human heart is a phenomenal piece of machinery in terms of design and function, most of the students would be more comfortable holding a transistor. Not to put too fine a point on it, I get tired of… squeamish students, and was glad that I could avoid it this year.

You can perhaps imagine, then, that I was not best pleased when Elena Bower, the admissions officer, emailed me last November to say that there had been a mistake, and I was needed to take a ‘spillover class’. Apparently the system had accepted more students for the course than there were places, and they were trying to organise an additional class for the seven who were unassigned. It didn’t make a lot of sense to me, Anatomy class wasn’t until the second term, so surely this mistake should have emerged earlier, but Elena just kept saying she didn’t know, she just had seven students who needed tutorials. I won’t pretend I took the news gracefully. I have a lot of research due shortly and, well, you know academia - never enough hours in the day. Still, I was the only staff member both qualified to teach the class and technically free when it had to be scheduled. So I agreed, although that really makes it sound like I had more of a choice than I actually did.

I didn’t meet the students until the module started this January. I wasn’t responsible for any of the lectures, so the first time I saw them was in our initial class tutorial. They all sat there, all seven, staring at me, and I felt… oddly uncomfortable. There, there was nothing wrong with them, of course, nothing strange to see or to look at, just… well, this is going to sound stupid to say out loud, but I don’t remember what they look like. Any of them. I remember that each wore blue jeans and a white shirt, though they were all different makes and styles; I think one of the girls had a skirt, instead. I must have noticed that they were wearing the same outfits, but it didn’t strike me as odd. They all just looked so… normal. Unremarkable. I remember their names, though, from the register. They stuck with me - maybe because they were such an international group. There was Erika Mustermann, Jan Novak, Piotr and Pavel Petrov, who I think were brothers, maybe twins, John Doe, Fulan al-Fulani and Juan Pérez.

I greeted them when I entered the room, and was met with silence. Not a malicious or angry silence, just silence. I’ve never been self-conscious when teaching, but walking to my seat with those fourteen eyes just… watching me… it made ever so slightly uncomfortable. I got the oddest feeling they were judging my walk. [Nervous laugh]

The class began, and we started going over some of the basics of anatomy and how the body works. They started to talk then, and some of my unease left me. I don’t remember exactly what was said, after doing it long enough most tutorials just kind of blur together a bit, but I recall being struck by just how basic some of their questions were. The composition of blood, where in the body the various organs sat, the sort of thing that anyone who’s done a science GCSE should know. I was almost tempted to ask where they went to school. At the time, I didn’t question the fact that they must have all gone to the same school.

Aside from that it was mostly normal, except… about halfway through the tutorial, we discussed the lungs and respiration. Inhalation, alveoli, et cetera. As I said, basic stuff, but I paused afterwards, just to have a think about where to go next, and I heard the sound of them breathing. That’s not abnormal, I know, but it seemed to fill the silence so suddenly, and all at once. I could… I could have sworn that I didn’t actually hear it before that moment. Like they’d only just then started breathing. [Nervous laugh] Which is, which is absurd, obviously. I was probably just listening out for it because we’d been discussing the lungs. Even so, it was disconcerting, and I don’t mind telling you that I breathed quite a sigh of relief myself when the tutorial was over and I could get out of there.

Now, I consider myself a conscientious worker, and in all my years at King’s I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve called in sick, but when the time came for the next tutorial with this class, I had to stay home with a migraine. It wasn’t a lie, exactly, the thought of sitting there for another two hours with those staring, placid eyes gave me such a spell of anxiety that my brain felt like it was being stabbed with a shard of ice. I did have to teach them eventually, of course. I couldn’t avoid it forever. Re-entering that room, though… All of them were sat in the exact same positions, in the exact same clothes, their breathing deliberate and almost pointed. When Erika Mustermann - or was it Jan Novak? - said ‘Good morning’, the others followed suit, one by one, and I had to fight the urge to run. It struck me then that, despite how diverse their names were, none of them seemed to have any noticeable accent. Not that it did anything to reassure me.

There was no-one else who could take the tutorials. Believe me, I did everything I could to try and find a replacement. Still, once I got used to their stares, their silence, and the fact that their questions were both specific and oddly basic - one of the Petrovs once asked me “How sharp are the knees meant to be” - I swear, it was just about tolerable. I’m a bit ashamed to admit it, but I came to terms with the fact that I didn’t care if they passed any exams, and that actually made the whole affair more manageable. I just did my best to stop caring.

And then came our first of two sessions in the dissection room. We were looking at the skeleton. I had been dreading this. Given exactly how creepy and unsettling the students were just sat in a classroom, the idea of what they could do when given access to human remains made me feel quite nauseous. But I couldn’t bring myself to leave them there alone, so I went.

It was even worse than I’d feared, seeing them stood there over the bits of cadaver. Their faces, normally so neutral, were alive with… what was it I saw? Excitement? Curiosity? Hunger? Whatever it was, it didn’t reach their eyes, still staring and blank. I went through the procedures with them and tried my best to keep the trembling out of my voice. When Fulan reached for a scalpel and started cutting into our samples, I felt faint.

I was trying to keep an eye on everyone, but the dissection tables were arranged in a semi-circle around the lab, and each time I turned to face one of the students, I began to hear this cracking sound from whichever tables I wasn’t looking at. Like a snapping bone, or a ribcage being forced open. I’d turn back and see nothing untoward, just John or Erika or Juan or whoever it was, looking at me quizzically over distinctly unbroken bones. But it kept happening. Whenever I wasn’t looking, I heard the crunch and the crack of bone. I couldn’t ask about it. I knew the dead-eyed, mute stare they’d give me if I did, and I just couldn’t face that.

Finally, I managed to position myself so that I could see what was happening behind me in the reflective edge of the metal table. It wasn’t much, but I could see a slightly warped image. It was Pavel, in this case. I saw him pick up a bone - a radius, I believe, from the forearm. He held it up next to his own arm, and then there came that snapping, crunching noise. I swear I saw his arm distend itself, the skin shifting as something inside changed and rearranged, until it matched the length of bone he was holding up to it.

I tried not to react, not to make a noise at this mad impossibility that I saw. I couldn’t help it, though, and my legs gave out. I collapsed on the floor with a whimpering cry. None of them looked at me, none of them offered to help me up, none of them gave any reaction at all. I shut my eyes tight as that cracking sound began to come from every direction, as all seven of them began to change themselves. It went on for almost half an hour, until our allotted time in the lab ended. And then they left, walking past me, still sat helpless on the floor. As they did, each of them thanked me for the lesson as though nothing had happened. And I swear that every single one of them was taller than when they started.

I started taking more sick leave after that. I avoided their tutorials as often as possible, and when I did go we largely just sat there in silence until one of them asked a question about human anatomy, which I would reluctantly answer. I know I should have just abandoned them entirely. If they were going to complain to anyone, they would have done it already. But even then, I was worried my colleagues might notice, and I really didn’t want to get a reputation as some absentee tutor. It didn’t help that a colleague of mine, Dr. Laura Gill, once expressed surprise on learning I’d been absent the day before, as apparently she’d passed by my teaching room and my anatomy class had just been sat there, waiting quietly. The thought of them politely filing into every tutorial, just sat there, blank and staring, whether I was there or not, just waiting… To be quite frank I think that bothered me almost more than being sat there with them.

Still, I managed to largely avoid them until the 21st of March, when they had their second lab dissection. Hearts. I’m not an idiot. I was well aware of the sort of sinister nonsense that was likely to happen if I went, but I also knew by now that they would attend whether or not I was there. And to leave them in the lab unsupervised would be the sort of thing that would get me actually fired from my position.

It was a rainy morning. I remember that, because I deliberately didn’t put up an umbrella. Something inside me was so dreading what was going to happen that the very act of opening umbrellas seemed pointless, as though my being dry couldn’t stop what was coming, then there was no reason not to get soaked. So I was dripping wet when I entered the lab, and my glasses had steamed up to the point where I could no longer see through them. When I wiped them clean, they revealed those seven blank faces, utterly unconcerned with my sodden state. Each had somehow got the heart laid out in from them on the dissection tray. I decided not to prolong it, and waved them to start.

I don’t know what I expected. Maybe I thought they’d descend into some sort of feeding frenzy, but they didn’t. They just began to dissect the hearts, as any other class would, occasionally asking me polite questions. I was so taken aback at how normal the whole situation seemed to be that it took me some time to actually answer them. I did, though, and the first hour of the class almost put me at least a little bit at ease. The more I thought about it, the more it made sense. Maybe they were doing weird things to their insides, but if it was the heart, then I couldn’t see it and I couldn’t hear it. And I’d long since decided with this class, that if I couldn’t see or hear it, I didn’t care.

Then Erika Mustermann held up her heart and looked at me. I began to get that sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach as she asked me “How does the heart pump blood?” I started to explain the biological mechanisms of the heart pumping, when she shook her head slowly and said, “What does it look like?” And then, when I didn’t answer, “Is it like this?”

The heart in her hand began to spasm. Not like the regular, rhythmic pulse of a heartbeat, but like a balloon being rapidly squeezed at one end. Bits of it swelled and stretched and distorted seemingly at random, and blood began to flow haphazardly from the ventricles, dripping down Erika’s forearm and dribbling onto the floor.

I stood there speechless, staring at this horrible miracle, from when behind her I see Fulan raise his heart, saying, “That’s not what it’s like.” And blood starts to gush from all over his heart in tiny geysers, shooting in every direction. Soon each of them is holding a heart up, each pumping and throbbing differently, blood leaking, spurting out of them in a different way, a different nightmare. They wanted me to tell them which was right. [Nervous laugh] I don’t know how long I stared before I finally raised my hand to point at Jan Novak, who seemed to have the closest to an accurate impression of a regular human heartbeat. Then I turned and walked out of the lab.

I spent the rest of the day sat in the staffroom, waiting for someone to come running in, screaming about the lab being full of blood. I expected questions I couldn’t answer and immediate termination. But nothing happened. No-one came. When I returned to the lab several hours later, there was no sign of any blood, except for the tiniest speck, dried into a tile crack in the corner. Unless that, that had been there before? I don’t know. My shoes were still speckled with blood, though, so I know I wasn’t hallucinating it. I checked with Dr. Gill, who confirmed that she could see the spots, though I neglected to tell her it was blood. I had no intention of inviting further questions.

I missed the next three tutorials. I just stayed at home. But something wouldn’t let me just simply let it go. Finally, I made a decision. I wanted to see where they lived. I felt like I needed to, for some reason. Needed to see if they existed outside of my class, outside of my mind. I asked Elena and, irregular as it was, she gave me the address. It didn’t surprise me to find out they all lived in the same place. A semi-detached house on Kingsland Road in Newham. I’m afraid I don’t remember the number, and the details have disappeared from the college systems.

The house itself was run down, as might have been expected, and I must have spent a good fifteen minutes just stood in front of it, waiting for the courage to approach. Finally, I knocked on the door. The wood was old and dry, and some flaked off under my knuckles. It opened immediately, and there stood Jan Novak. When she saw me, her mouth twisted into something I think was meant to be a smile.

“Hello,” she said, “have you come to give us more lessons? We would like to learn about the liver.” Her eyes locked onto my abdomen.

I was about to reply when a muffled scream of pain came from somewhere deep inside the house. It sounded ragged, like whoever was crying out had been gagged. I looked to Jan Novak, who showed no indication she had heard it, still staring at where I had taught her my liver would be. I ran, and she watched me go without moving.

I did call the police, but they just told me that the house was currently unoccupied, and they’d found no evidence that there had been anyone present. I took great pains never to see the class again. I avoided all tutorials, and simply waited until the end of term. I haven’t seen them since.

ARCHIVIST
That’s it?

DR. ELLIOTT
Not quite. There was one other thing. When I went to the classroom shortly after what should have been their final tutorial, I found something on the desk. It was an apple. Next to it was a handwritten note that said “Thank you for teaching us the insides”. I burned the note, just in case.

ARCHIVIST
And the apple, did you… eat it?

DR. ELLIOTT
Do I look like an idiot? Of course not! I cut it in half, first, to check if it was… off.

ARCHIVIST
And?

DR. ELLIOTT
Human teeth. Inside were human teeth arranged in a smile. Here, I brought you the two halves to see for yourselves.

ARCHIVIST
Oh good lord! That’s…

DR. ELLIOTT
Deeply unpleasant, yes. You can keep it, if you want. As proof.

ARCHIVIST
We do not want it. I’m afraid it isn’t really proof.

Someone could have stuck those teeth in after the apple had been cut.

DR. ELLIOTT
[Somewhat distressed] You think I would do that?!

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t say you would, I just said it was enough of a possibility that I don’t think your… tooth apple has a place in our artefact storage. Also, it is technically medical waste.

DR. ELLIOTT
Fine. I’ll dispose of it myself. Now, is there anything else you want me?

ARCHIVIST
No, this should do. We’ll investigate and get back to you if we find anything.

Statement ends.

[CLICK]
The first thing about this statement that makes me dubious is that it comes from a fellow academic. Historic and prestigious as the Magnus Institute is, there are still many within the sphere of higher education that do not grant it the respect it deserves, and some have been known to make false statements as ill-conceived jokes.

Another mark against the veracity of the statement is the names of the students. A quick Internet search reveals ‘Erika Mustermann’ as the official German placeholder name, similar to the English, well, the English name ‘John Doe’. The same is true the other names, ‘Juan Pérez’ is the generic name of choice in most Spanish speaking countries, ‘Fulan al-Fulani’ in the Middle East, et cetera. It seems strange to me that Dr. Elliott would fail to take note of this.

Still, Tim made contact with Elena Bower in the King’s administration office, and while she couldn’t find any actual records of them in the system, she does remember them being there, and confirms that she assigned them to Dr. Elliott last year. She could be in on it, of course, but Tim seems to believe her.

There’s also the matter of the teeth. I stand by my assessment that there is no evidence they were placed there by supernatural means, but it does seem an awfully long way to go for a bad joke. In the end, we did send them off to a dental specialist, but they weren’t able to tell us much beyond the fact that they all seemed like healthy adult teeth, and most of them appeared to come from different people.

There’s not much more we can do to follow this up, without dedicating additional time we can’t afford. The only other lead was Sasha’s discovery that, early last year, Dr. Rashid Sadana took his own life. There’s no direct connection, except that he taught the Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology for Complementary Therapies course at St. Mary’s University, and the only note found near the body simply read “NOT TO BE USED FOR TEACHING”.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Harold Silvana, regarding discoveries made during the renovation of the Reform Club, Pall Mall. Original statement given June 4th, 2002. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’m a builder. Sort of. I always find myself using the words ‘craftsman’ or ‘artisan’, but that’s mostly because of my client base. I specialise in renovation and alterations on listed buildings and those of historical or architectural significance. In simple terms it’s not much different to any other sort of construction work, except it takes about three times as long and costs ten times as much. That’s not to say I rip people off. You need to spend almost half the time just planning exactly how you’re going to tackle any given job, while preserving or recreating the original architecture as much as possible, and then you have to be incredibly careful when you’re doing the work. I’m quite serious when I say that if you’re not paying attention and keeping the alterations well-documented, you can get sued for millions over knocking out the wrong brick. Plus, the materials aren’t cheap. So, yes, my services are expensive, but me and my team are worth every penny. And the sort of people I deal with, or should I say the sort of people whose personal assistants I deal with, can afford it.

I don’t have a company, per se. People hire me for me, and I have a small team I trust to help out with the work itself. They’re technically freelance contractors, but the pay’s good enough and, in London at least, there’s enough work that they’re happy to wait on my call.

I’ve found plenty of interesting things in this job. I suppose that’s not unexpected when you’re digging around old buildings. We got kicked off a job once when we found some bones under a very venerable country house that will remain nameless, as the owners contacted the British Museum, who couldn’t take over fast enough. There have also been a few jewellery pieces that found their way to other museums, and once we found a box of 17th century erotic poems that I think are currently languishing in the storerooms of the V&A museum. But I never found anything like what was under 100 Pall Mall.

We’d been called in to do some work on the basement and ground floor of the Reform Club. It wasn’t anything major. Some upkeep on a few of the historic pieces, replace a few of the earlier renovations. The amount of actual work involved was minimal, but it was a Grade I listed building, so the amount of care we had to take stretched it into a week-long job. It didn’t help that we had to schedule around the fact that it’s still a very active social venue, so we could only actually come out of the basement when it wasn’t full of people too important to see builders. Grade I listing is a significant payday, though, so I certainly wasn’t going to rock the boat.

It was about two in the morning when the kid showed up. It was just me and Rachael Turley, who does most of our marble work, though we were mostly just doing surveying at that point. Alfred Bartlett was out getting coffee, though god knows where from at that time of night. We were mostly just kicking our heels really, since he’s the plumber and we needed his expertise. Now, Alf has been in the business for nearly 40 years, and there wasn’t a thing he didn’t know about water or sewage systems, but we often joke that it’s pushed everything else out of his head. I think he must have forgotten to lock the door when he headed out, and that’s how the kid got in. That said, this was still the first week in March and it was pretty cold, so I’m surprised we didn’t notice the draught.

In the end I suppose it doesn’t matter. The fact is that Rachel and me had been sat there chatting for maybe five minutes when we noticed we weren’t alone. In the doorway leading back to the stairwell stood a thin figure. He looked to be in his late teens, I’d guess. He was dressed all in black, with heavy looking boots and a T-shirt with the logo of some band emblazoned on it, Megadon or Mastodon, or something like that. His hair was long and greasy, almost down to his shoulders, and looked to be dyed almost the same black as his clothes. He did not look like he was supposed to be skulking round the Reform Club, but I’d encountered more than one member whose rich children were going through a ‘rebellious period’, so couldn’t be entirely sure. I decided to be gentle in my initial enquiries and asked him if he was lost, told him this part of the basement was off-limits due to renovations.

The kid shook his head and asked if we’d found anything yet. Any of “Leitner’s pages”. Now this took me aback a bit. I wondered how long he’d been standing there, because Rachel and I had just been talking about the man. Jurgen Leitner was a businessman from Norway, I believe, who used to have offices in the ground floor of the building next to the Reform Club, 100 Pall Mall. I don’t know what his business was, but when I was first getting started, back in ‘87, we got a call from Mr. Leitner, requesting a consultation in his Pall Mall office. Back then it was just me and Rachel, and we mostly did stone restoration and alteration, so we assumed Mr. Leitner wanted our opinion on a property outside of London. Our reputation back then was not sufficient to get us access to any of the sort of Central London buildings we now work on.

When we first met Jurgen Leitner, he looked very much like I had imagined him. Portly, middle-aged, short blond hair in the middle of going grey, well-tailored business suit. His office surprised me, though, as it was almost completely bare, save for a desk and two chairs in front of it. There were no tables or bookshelves or filing cabinets or anything like that. He asked us to sit down, and though he spoke with a very faint accent, his English was perfect. We made small talk, but he seemed impatient, eager to talk about whatever it was he wanted us to do.

I asked him what the job was, and he stopped and looked at us closely. Then he said he simply wanted us to dig a hole. An unusual request, but not an unreasonable one, so I asked him where it whereabouts this was going to be. He rose, walked over to the corner and pointed at the floor. He said he needed a hole put through the floor. I thought there would have been a basement under there, and he said no, the building’s basement didn’t go under these rooms. He smiled an odd little smile as he said it, which put me a bit on edge.

Now, there was no way we could do a job like that without the building owner’s permission and I told Leitner this. He began to get shifty, then, and tried to tell us that he already had that permission. When we told him we’d need to confirm it with the commercial landlord, he got very defensive, told us that it was fine and he’d need to discuss it with some other contractors first. When we told him we’d just need to have a quick phone call with the owner, he started screaming that we didn’t understand what we were talking about, that he didn’t need to explain himself to the likes of us, and there were some things that were too important, too powerful to be owned. Then he just started yelling at us in Norwegian until we left. We didn’t bother contacting the owners of 100 Pall Mall, in the end.

It was without a doubt the weirdest interview with a prospective client that we’d ever had, and being so close to the site of it had Rachel and I reminiscing when this teenage burnout turned up. I asked him if he’d been eavesdropping, and he shrugged, and again asked what we had found. I was just about done with this kid, and started to tell him that he was going to have to leave, when Rachel interrupted me and asked what there was to find. The kid laughed, as though he and Rachel were in on some private joke. “Can you smell it?” he said, and for a brief moment, I could smell something. Damp old stone and musty paper, just a faint whiff. It took me off guard, and I think that was why I just stood there as he walked past me and picked up the hammer. He strode over to one of the walls and, with a swing stronger than I would have thought possible from his age and skinny frame, he buried it into the wall. I heard a scream, high-pitched, but it definitely didn’t come from any of us.

This was enough to break me out of my stupor and I ran over and wrestled the hammer from the kid. He struggled and flailed, though he didn’t say anything. As I tried to calm him down, Rachel called over me, and I looked at where he’d hit the wall. In the centre of it was a neat hole; the other side was darkness. There shouldn’t have been anything behind the wall except foundation, but it didn’t look like this was a real basement wall. I let the kid go and walked over to get a closer look. Rachel started to examine it with her tools, before she confirmed what I’d already guessed - that it was a fake. It looked like someone had blocked off a passage, and then very carefully disguised it.

It was at this point Alf returned, and we had some considerable explaining to do. Through it all the kid, who said his name was Gerard, just sat their sullenly, listening to his CD player and waiting. When we asked him how he knew what was behind that wall he just shrugged, and told us that his mother knows all about this stuff. He didn’t elaborate as to what “this stuff” might have been.

We should have waited until morning and told the Reform Club staff what we’d found. We should have handed Gerard over to the police, but Alf was always too curious for his own good, and he suggested we have a look inside. Rachel and I half-heartedly tried to argue against it, but I think deep down we wanted to know just as much as he did. So in we went.

Knocking through the rest of the wall didn’t take long. It had been built to look like the rest of the basement, but hadn’t been constructed with the same skill. Ten minutes later our coffees lay forgotten on the floor and we stood before a passageway leading off into the musty darkness. A gentle breeze blew from this entrance, which didn’t make any sense at all. We had plenty of torches, as you often need them during night work, so we each took one large one and a smaller back-up in case the first had any problems. We tried to tell Gerard to stay outside, but I could see immediately that, short of tying him up, there was no way we were going to keep him out of there. Tying him up did feel like a step too far, so we settled for keeping a close eye on him as we went inside.

The passageway was cold, and the air thick with mildew, but the stone walls were in very good condition. Rachel said it looked to be from the mid-19th century, probably remains of the basement of the Carlton Club, which used to be located in what was now 100 Pall Mall. It was with a start I realised that she was right, based on where the corridor was going, we must have been underneath the building. Almost exactly where Jurgen Leitner had wanted us to dig almost fifteen years ago.

We walked for some time, longer than I would have expected, given how big I remembered the building above us being. Alf kept asking Rachel if the corridor was getting narrower, and every time, she would dutifully measure the width and inform him that, no, it was exactly five feet wide. I couldn’t blame him, really, I’ve never had any sort of claustrophobia, but I was finding it hard, at points to catch my breath, to dismiss the feeling that the walls were pressing on me. Gerard walked on ahead, seemingly unbothered by the place.

We came to crossroads. Or, more precisely, a star. The chamber was small, round and featureless, but there were doorways leading out in a circle. I counted thirteen, not including the one we had come in from. Looking down some of them made me feel oddly queasy. There was one that, for all the world, it felt like I was going to fall into it. Another was so dark that our torches didn’t seem to reach more than a few feet inside. In the centre, there was a datestone. It read: “Robert Smirke, 1835. Balance and fear”.

I don’t know how much you know about famous London architects, but Robert Smirke was one of the foremost proponents of the Gothic Revival in the early 19th century. His work was some of the first to use concrete and cast iron, and often described as ‘theatrical’, a description that makes a lot of sense when you look at the grand columns of the British Museum - his most famous building. Later, I would look up a list of his buildings and discover that he had indeed built the Carlton Club building in that exact spot. It had been destroyed in the Second World War, during the Blitz, and the club itself had moved premises, but it looked like the underground foundations, or whatever this place was, had not been damaged.

We stood there for some time as I explained this to the others. It took some time to do so as, with the exception of Gerard, I got the impression that none of us were in any hurry to go down the other tunnels. A deep apprehension seemed to have settled itself in the pit of my stomach; everyone else also seemed to feel it. Then, without warning, Gerard started running full pelt into one of the passages. I’m not sure which one it was of the thirteen. I called for him to come back, but got no reply and Alf took off after him, running into the darkness and quickly turning a corner. Rachel and I looked at each other for a few seconds, but we both knew what we needed to be doing. I followed Alf into the passage, while she headed back down to the entrance to get help.

This tunnel wasn’t as dark as some of the others, but it was damper, and the walls seemed oddly slimy. After a few yards, the stone became so slick that I found it hard to keep my footing and I fell. I put my hand onto the floor to push myself up, and it came away faintly tinged with red. I heard Alf cry out from further down the corridor. He sounded utterly terrified, and I started on towards him again. I saw lights from up ahead, and was about to call out when Gerard came running back out of the darkness.

He was clutching a book in his hands, and clearly wasn’t paying attention to where he was going. He barrelled right into me, knocking me to the floor again. He was only a skinny kid, but he was so strong, and kept his footing, disappearing back into the darkness, towards the entrance. As he passed, I heard a small clattering sound, as though something were falling behind him. I reached out slowly, to try and raise myself off the ground, and felt something small and oddly smooth lying there. I shined my light on it, and saw a small bone. From a bird, I think, or maybe a rat. I looked around and there were a few more scattered about the corridor.

I’d fallen harder this time, and had managed to hurt my knee quite badly. I managed as just about able to limp to the end of the corridor, and there I found a small, round room. Against the walls were old bookshelves, decayed and empty, save for a few mouldering pages. They were stained and rotten, and one of them looked like it had a mummified hand laying on it. In front of it, in almost the centre of the room, lay Alf. He was dead. I couldn’t see any injuries on him. He didn’t even seem hurt. But looking at how still he lay there, the terrified, awful expression frozen on his face, there was no chance he was alive. On his motionless chest, and around the base of the bookshelf, I saw more of those tiny bones.

That’s where my memory begins to blur. I know I made it back to the basement of the Reform Club, where Rachel was waiting with the police. But I think I got some of the wrong passageways first. I have the vaguest memories: flashes of a pile of paper, completely covered in cobweb; a figure stood in the darkness, a stranger I didn’t know but was sure meant me harm; my skin burning, hot, choking on smoke down there in the dark.

When I was out, I was questioned by the police, who followed Rachel in to retrieve Alf’s body and were successful, though they came back out pale and shaking. There was no sign of Gerard, nor had Rachel seen him. I was then questioned again by the staff of the Reform Club, who instructed us in no uncertain terms to rebuild the wall and finish our original job. We were given to understand that the police were handling the matter, and if we pursued it closer then we would not be getting any further work from members of the club. As this covers almost everybody who can afford our services, we complied. It makes me feel sick, though, like we’re just abandoning Alf, dishonouring his memory. It’s not even like he had any family to miss him, it just feels wrong. I guess, maybe, that’s why I’m talking to you. Do try to keep my name out of it if you follow it up though, okay?

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

On the one hand, this statement represents a complete dead end, as no-one involved is both able and willing to talk to us. Over the last three months Sasha has attempted to contact Mr. Silvana, Rachel Turley, the management of the Reform Club and any of the police officers involved. All of them flatly deny any of this ever took place. Alfred Bartlett’s death was listed as a heart attack suffered during routine maintenance work, and none of the coroner’s reports provide any details out of the ordinary. The “kid”, who I think it is reasonable to assume is none other than Gerard Keay, remains just as impossible to contact as he ever was. From an evidence standpoint, this case is a complete bust.

However, too many of the names and features match with other statements for me to dismiss it, not to mention the fact that business records do list Jurgen Leitner as having hired out an office on the ground floor of 100 Pall Mall between 1985 and 1994. He was apparently one of the premier worldwide dealers in rare and antique books at the time, with items selling for the sort of sums where an office in Pall Mall doesn’t raise any eyebrows. If this strange basement is really there, then perhaps his choice of location was not simply a display of status. Clearly some of his books were there, and I can’t help but wonder whether that was where they were found, or just where they were stored.

The other major point of interest is the fact that this complex appears to have been designed by Robert Smirke. You should have seen Tim’s face when I told him. Architecture is one of his specialist areas, and he has always talked of Smirke as one that fascinates him. How did he phrase it? “A master of subtle stability.” From a professional standpoint, it also interests him that Smirke’s buildings have higher percentages of reported paranormal sightings than any other architect of similar profile. He hasn’t been able to find much out about the Carlton Club specifically, at least not anything relevant to this statement. In his later years, following Smirke’s official retirement in 1845, there were all sorts of rumours about his interests and religious preferences. If there was a scandalous sect or bizarre cult, his name would always be seen mentioned among those meeting with them. He also started putting his name forward to design churches, despite his claimed retirement. He was never taken up on these offers. Interesting, but fundamentally not that useful for the case in hand, especially since we have been unable to get permission to physically investigate whether this place even exists. It seems we’ve reached something of a dead end. No pun intended.

End recor - Urgh! Goddamn it!

[SOUND OF METAL CANISTER BEING KNOCKED]
Martin!

[DOOR OPENS]
Martin, where did you put the rest of the extinguishers? Martin!

[SOUND DISAPPEARS INTO DISTANCE]
[SILENCE, FOLLOWED BY HEAVY FOOTFALLS]
MARTIN
John, did you call fo -

BREEKON
‘scuse us.

HOPE
Looking for the Archivist.

MARTIN
I’m sorry, are you two meant -

BREEKON
Won’t take up your time.

HOPE
Just got a delivery.

MARTIN
Look, you really can’t actually-

BREEKON
Package for Jonathan Sims.

HOPE
Says right here.

MARTIN
Well, I don’t really know where he -

HOPE
We’ll just leave it with you.

BREEKON
Be sure he gets it.

MARTIN
Okay, I will, but you really have to actually -

BREEKON
‘course. Much obliged.

HOPE
Stay safe.

MARTIN
…I’ll try?

BREEKON
Your recorder’s on, by the way.

HOPE
Might want to change that.

MARTIN
Oh… so it is. Thanks.

BREEKON
No problem.

HOPE
At all.

[HEAVY FOOTSTEPS RECEDE]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Nicole Baxter, regarding visits culminating in the fire that consumed Ivy Meadows Care Home in Woodley, Greater Manchester. Original statement given November 19th, 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Fear is a strange thing, isn’t it? What you’re afraid of. For most people, a corpse is at the least unnerving and, for some, outright terrifying. Or maybe it’s disgust. They are two very different feelings, aren’t they? Though they often bleed into each other, if you’ll pardon the pun. I work as a funeral director, so as you can imagine, how I feel about death and the body is a bit more… complicated and more immediately relevant than it is for most people. Dealing with cadavers day in, day out forces you to confront all manner of things about yourself.

Simply put, I have found that I do not believe in any sort of afterlife. I have seen people cold and lifeless upon the mortician’s table who I knew, who I remembered as vibrant and lively. There was no soul that had departed, no special spark that passed on to something else. Simply a body that no longer moved or spoke or thought. It feels odd to consider the fact that you will no longer exist some day, but you didn’t exist for billions of years before your birth, so, it doesn’t seem unreasonable to conclude that you will not exist afterwards in much the same way. I try to see life as a pleasant holiday from non-existence. It provides some comfort when the truth of my own mortality stares me in the face every day.

There is one thing about dead bodies that does bother me, though. One thing that… eats at me, as it were, and does give me that sick tightness of fear deep in my gut. It is rot. I don’t know why it gets to me so; perhaps it’s precisely because I don’t think there is anything beyond the body, and even dead and unaware, seeing a person’s form begin to putrefy and fester - becoming just a home for the crawling, feasting things - is too much for me. Perhaps it’s just an unaccountable phobia. Regardless of the reason, the fact is that to see the corpses decaying, to see their flesh corrupted, it is… the one part of this job that I find uncomfortable. So much so that I would describe reconstruction and preservation as my favourite part of the process. Making sure the cadaver looks as peaceful and lifelike as possible. Make them the person they were, or as close as they can be while cold and senseless. Fighting off the rot. The insects. The disease.

I don’t know why I wrote disease just then. They’re dead, so they can’t be diseased in the normal sense, can they? I suppose it’s just thinking about what happened at the Ivy Meadows Care Home links them in my head. But it’s not just that, is it? That… the fear, the feeling. That tingling, squirming fear at the back of my mind - it feels the same when thinking of the germs that corrupt and twist our bodies, lurking invisibly on any table or surface, or when I saw those swarming flies. How many more moved and buzzed just out of sight? I’ve never had any mental health issues before, but perhaps after my experience I should consult someone. I read once that OCD can come on later in life, if a severe experience sets it off.

I’m rambling. Disregard this first page, I’ll start again.

I work as a mortician at Baxter and Gordon Funeral Directors in Woodley. By rights it should now just be Baxter Funeral Directors, as William Gordon passed away himself about 5 years ago, leaving my uncle George running the place on his own. He kept the name though, as he always said it was one of the most respected in all of Manchester. God knows there was no sentimental reason to keep it. From the way he talked, he and William Gordon hated each other by the end, to the point where the will expressly stated that the body of William Gordon was to be handled and prepared by Fenchurch and Sons, one of my uncle’s great rivals. Maybe that’s why Uncle George is so keen to keep it in the family. He hired me and my cousin Josh to help, and now Baxter and Gordon Funeral Directors is entirely run by Baxters.

I’ve been there for almost four years now and have taken over most of the client-side arrangements of the business. My uncle has gotten somewhat brusque in his old age and is now more suited to organising things with churches and crematoria, rather than handling the recently bereaved. As such, I’ve gotten to know the various nursing and care homes around Woodley rather well. We generally get a few removals from any given one each year. Maybe as many as a half dozen if the winter is bad. It’s certainly our most reliable source of business.

Of them all, Ivy Meadows was my favourite. For a funeral director to say she has a favourite nursing home probably sounds a bit like the Grim Reaper talking about his favourite hospital, but it’s true. Ivy Meadows Care Home was on the outskirts of Woodley, where the suburbs gave way to pockets of green countryside. It wasn’t remote, exactly, but it was removed enough from main road that it stood alone, surrounded by rather lovely gardens on three sides, and a long, open field behind it. It had been a country house once, I believe, but not much of the original structure remains, having been modified and expanded to provide accessible accommodation for about thirty residents. It was an odd building, with modern glass and concrete sections sprouting from old turreted brickwork, like blocky stone tumours.

The look of the place wasn’t why I liked it, though. No, that was the residents. Ivy Meadows was almost entirely populated by those elderly who were entirely supported by the state. Most pensioners have some savings or property or family to support them, which means if they’re unable to live alone they can at least afford to pay for their own care or some of it. It’s rare for a person to reach that age and have literally nothing to pay for their care, but it does happen. In these cases, the state pays for them, but they have little choice in where they end up. Ivy Meadows was almost entirely populated by these. Old people without money or family, sent to be looked after by strangers. You’d have expected the atmosphere to be unpleasant, some morbid combination of prison and hospice, but it was quite the opposite. Something about the mutual loneliness seemed to lead them to create a real sense of community. It was the only place I ever went where the residents still gave me a smile. Hannah Ramirez, who ran the place, would always tell me a bit about the deceased and their time there, and I was inevitably shocked by tales of drugs, sexual escapades and other gossip that sounded more like a high school than a nursing home. I think Hannah enjoyed trying to get a reaction out of me when I was trying to be solemn. It was just a happy place, even if I was only there to do a sad duty.

It all started to change about three months ago, after Hannah left. I don’t know exactly when she left her post or why; we hadn’t had a call from Ivy Meadows for a couple of months, so it must have happened during that period. I don’t know where she moved to, either. It certainly wasn’t any of the other care homes around Woodley, and it wasn’t like I knew her personally. I’d gotten a call from one of the nurses, Alenka Kozel, who said that one of their residents had taken ill and passed away, a man by the name of Bertrand Miller. I asked her for a few more details; she started to say something else, but the call was cut off almost abruptly. I didn’t really think too much about it, most of the details could be worked out when we arrived, so I called Josh and loaded up the car for a removal.

It was a hot mid-August day, and the air was thick and humid, making everything feel sticky, like the whole world was running a fever. The sky was overcast, though, an orangey-grey that cast muted shadows and seemed to muffle the world. It was about a ten minute drive to Ivy Meadows, and neither of us said a word. I don’t know why, at that point we had no idea that there was anything wrong, but looking back it seems like we both felt there was something off about it. Or maybe we were just too hot for conversation and hindsight is colouring my memories.

When we arrived the place was silent. There were no cars in the parking area, which was not unusual, but I couldn’t see a soul anywhere on the grounds. Maybe they were simply staying out of the heat. Josh and I got out of the car and approached the door. I pressed the buzzer, as I had done so many times before, expecting the cheery voice of one of the receptionists. Instead there was just dead air, followed by the clunk of the door being remotely unlocked. I looked at Josh, who shrugged, and we went inside.

Ivy Meadows Care Home was usually much as you would find any other - air conditioned, and smelling faintly of cleaning products and cheap potpourri. This time it was different. The smell now was just as faint, but seemed… rancid, while the air itself was close and damp. The beige walls seemed dirtier than before, with dark marks at roughly hand-height. There was a faint buzzing, like a fly, but I couldn’t see any source for it.

None of it was so bad as to make us turn back, however, and we headed towards the reception desk. There was nobody behind it, and I rang the bell. I always wore gloves when on a removal, and was glad of that fact now, as I noticed a greasy residue on top of the small brass bell. The door to the reception opened, and a tall man stepped out. He was rail thin and wore a faded brown suit that seemed to have been cut for a much fatter man. His eyes were a watery blue and his dark hair stood on top of his head in an unruly mess. He must have been around forty, but had a nervous sort of energy to him. He was quite a surprise, to say the least.

Josh recovered faster than I did and asked the man, a bit rudely, who he was, where we could find Hannah. The man shook his head at this and said that Ms. Ramirez had left the position, and he was now Director of Ivy Meadows. He introduced himself as John Amherst, and held a hand out for Josh to shake. My cousin stood there for some time, staring at the thick, sweaty hand of this strange man, clearly not wanting to shake it. Mr. Amherst just stood there, arm outstretched, apparently unconcerned. A fly landed on his face, and if he noticed, he didn’t give any sign of it, not even when it walked across his eye. Eventually, the now clearly shaken Josh stuttered out some semi-polite excuse and backed away.

At this John Amherst lowered his hand and turned to me. He asked why we were here. This took me rather by surprise, as there’s generally only one reason undertakers show up in such a place. We told him we had received a call and been told Mr. Miller had passed away. Amherst asked who had called us, but with such a sharpness in his voice that I lied and said the caller hadn’t given their name. He paused, clearly considering what to say next very carefully. Finally, he nodded, and said that yes, Bertrand Miller was dead. And we could have him. Then he gestured for us to follow and began to walk back into the main building.

As we walked, he began listing the details for Mr. Miller’s funeral, such as they were. No family or friends, no savings or insurance, simple cremation, as soon as possible. No service to be held at the crematorium. Ashes to be returned to Ivy Meadows in whatever the cheapest option was for an urn made of brass. At this I asked what he wanted the ashes for, and he simply waved his hand in a vague dismissal and said they’d be wanting to have a “private remembrance service”.

By now, we’d been walking for a few minutes, and I hadn’t seen another soul in the corridors. I thought I spotted one of the nurses at one point, but they had turned and walked away as soon as they saw us. We arrived at a room bearing a small plaque. It read ‘Bertrand Miller’. John Amherst opened it without hesitation and went inside.

The smell was what hit me first. I’ve smelled plenty of corpses in my time. I’d almost say I’m used to the smell. This was different, there was some deeper taint there than simply putrefying flesh, and it made me gag. By the look on his face, Josh smelled it as well. Then I got a good look at the body on the bed, and almost turned and ran.

Based on the colour of those sections of skin still whole and unblemished, Mr. Miller couldn’t have been dead for more than a few hours, half a day at most. You wouldn’t have known, though. Large sections of his body were covered in a wet, creamy yellow rash, which… I’m not a doctor, so describing exactly what it did to the flesh it touched would serve no purpose except to start me having the nightmares again. Let us just say that it gave a plentiful home for the flies that swarmed around his body.

We looked at John Amherst, utterly appalled. He said not to worry, that the disease that had claimed poor Mr. Miller wasn’t contagious. Even produced the recently signed death certificate, though it was stained with some dark grey fluid, so I did not examine it too closely. He then apologised that their air conditioning had broken. “I’m sure you know all about what heat does to cadavers,” he said.

I just wanted to get out of there, and have never been more grateful to whoever designed care home beds so that we could remove the body with as little contact as possible. Even then, on the way out I felt a sudden tickling pain on the back of my left hand, and looked down to see the thick leather glove in contact with one of the patches of yellow. I nearly screamed and dropped the body, but did neither. Ivy Meadows did not feel then like a safe place to do either of those things. In fact, I kept my composure through the whole of the drive home.

As soon as we arrived, I ran into the bathroom, throwing my gloves into the medical waste bin. I scrubbed the patch of skin that still felt like it was crawling. I could see nothing wrong with it, but I kept scrubbing until it was bloody, then poured disinfectant over it until it went numb.

When I finally left the bathroom, I found Josh arguing loudly with his father. Apparently Uncle George was not satisfied with the explanation given for the state of Mr. Miller’s body. He turned to me, and asked what had happened. I told him the same thing Josh had, the same thing I’ve told you. We went over it slowly, point by point until finally he stood there silently, looking worried, but determined. He had us tell it to him one more time, before he nodded, told us to stay away from the corpse of Bertrand Miller, and left, telling us he had to make a few calls. I have never seen a cremation done with such a quick turnaround, and he was burned before the end of the day. I asked Uncle George about returning the ashes in a brass urn, but he shook his head, and said he’d already had them disposed of.

I knew my uncle wasn’t one to share his thoughts when he didn’t want to, and that seemed to be the end of it, save for those times throughout the day I would feel that tickling in my hand and run to scrub it away. I went on a couple of other jobs, and it seemed like we were expected to forget it. Josh didn’t talk about what happened, and I got the impression he was trying to ignore what he had seen. He always was a practical soul.

I… couldn’t let it go, though. It just kept playing in my mind. So when the phone rang two weeks later and I heard Alenka’s voice on the other end, my heart skipped several beats. What she said did nothing to allay my fears. The line was bad, very bad, but I could have sworn she said, “Come quickly. We’ve taken ill. We’ve passed away.” The words repeated, as though on a recorded loop, though they were no easier to make out than the first time. Finally, I put the phone down. I was technically off duty at that point, having just finished my shift, so I could have ignored it. I could have walked away. Instead, I put on my normal clothes, grabbed three pairs of gloves and got in my car.

The drive there was dreadful. Still hot, I kept looking at turnings and junctions, and imagining where I would go if I turned away from Ivy Meadows and just drove off. But I didn’t. I kept taking those old familiar turnings, moving inevitably towards that sick, old building.

When I arrived, it was quiet. The whole building looked filthy now, even from the outside, and the plants that bordered it had started to take on an unhealthy whitish colour. There was one other car in the parking area, a faded white Transit van I didn’t recognise. I got out and started to walk towards the front door. The smell was noticeable even from out here, and by the time I got close enough to reach the buzzer, it had become so strong as to be unbearable. I tried to bring myself to press the button. But instead I turned and half-sprinted back to my car, desperate to breath clean air again.

I stood there, torn between wanting to flee and needing to know. Then in the silence, I heard it. Tap, tap, tap. Someone banging rhythmically on a window. I scanned all the ones I could see, but they were dark.

Tap, tap, tap.

It showed no sign of stopping. I began to make a wide circuit of the building. It was on the other side that I saw it. A large, ground floor window showed what I think would once have been the lounge. The walls were dark, stained and smeared to almost black, but the windows were clear. Stood the other side of the glass, weakly banging her fist against it, was Alenka Kozel. Her skin was mottled, covered with that leaking yellow rash. She saw me, and as her eyes locked with mine she opened her mouth, and the buzzing of the flies that spewed out was almost as loud as her scream.

I turned and began to sprint back towards my car. I had to get away, to get out. Then, without warning, I felt something heavy hit me in the side and I lost my footing, falling to the ground. I looked up to see an old man pinning me to the ground, his long, white beard matted and filthy. I screamed and tried to escape, but his age seemed to have done nothing to diminish his strength, and he kept his grip easily.

Then he spoke in a thick Mancunian accent and told me to keep my voice down. I noticed that his skin was unblemished pink, and behind him stood a young woman, tall and lean with close-cropped hair and a deep scar over her right eye. She carried a large canvas bag, and was shaking her head, telling the old man to leave me alone. After a few suspicious glances, he got up. I could swear I recognised him from somewhere, but when I asked the two of them who they were, they just shook their heads and told me to leave. I asked them what was going on, and the old man looked at his companion, as if asking permission, said something about knowledge being a good defence here. She shook her head and said that leaving quickly was a better one. I didn’t need to be told a third time.

I got in my car, and I left them to their work. I didn’t turn around even when I saw the smoke start to rise behind me. And that was the last time I went there. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I need to go wash my hands.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

The Ivy Meadows Care Home in Woodley was officially decommissioned in July 2011, a month before the first of these alleged calls came in. It burned down on the 4th of September that same year after a leaking gas main caught fire. If the gas was already leaking, this might have resulted in hallucinations or other problems during their initial visit. There is no record of the body of Bertrand Miller being processed, or cremated, by Baxter and Gordon Funeral Directors, but based on this statement that’s not necessarily a point of incredulity. Bertrand Miller was a resident at Ivy Meadows, but according to his death certificate he passed away on 19th July, a week before the home was decommissioned. There’s no record of any funeral arrangements or disposal of the body.

In fact, it seems the records from the closure of Ivy Meadows are… well, according to Sasha, calling them ‘patchy’ would be very generous. There are only transfer records for seven residents, whereas at last official count the home held twenty-nine. The others seem to have been lost in the system somewhere. The majority of the workforce also appears to be undocumented, and I can find no record of any ‘Alenka Kozel’ on the system. Martin’s research would seem to indicate the place employed a reasonable number of international staff they preferred to keep off the books, but it doesn’t explain why none of the officially-listed staff can be located for follow-up, except for Hannah Ramirez, whose brief interview simply established she moved to Brighton shortly before the closure of Ivy Meadows and hadn’t heard anything about it since. John Amherst, as best we can tell, doesn’t exist. We’re unable to locate anyone fitting that description anywhere within the care or medical sector, and he certainly never ran any nursing homes.

Another tale full of dead ends. We did contact the Baxters. Joshua Baxter repeated the first part of the above statement. George Baxter told us not to listen to tall tales. Nicole Baxter said she stands by her account, but aside from losing her left hand in what she calls “a workplace accident”, there have been no further developments.

Still, there’s a lot here the puts me in mind of other statements. Something in the way Ms. Baxter talks about fear. I can’t help but be reminded of statement 0142302, how Jane Prentiss talks about her own fears. And the old man and his companion… who does that remind me of? If he wasn’t dead, I’d think it might have been Trevor -

[DOOR OPENS]
Oh, er, yes?

TIM
Are you free?

ARCHIVIST
Yes… Yes, I’m just about finished here, what is it?

TIM
Oh, ah, nothing urgent, um, it’s just Elias was asking a couple questions about the delivery.

ARCHIVIST
Delivery? What delivery?

TIM
Ah well, that’s actually what he was asking, huh! Um, apparently Martin, uh, took delivery of a couple of items last week addressed to you. Did he not mention it?

ARCHIVIST
No, he… Oh, yes, actually. I completely forgot. He said he put it in my desk drawer, hold on.

[SOUND OF PACKAGE BEING RETRIEVED AND OPENED]
TIM
Er, what is it?

ARCHIVIST
A lighter. An old Zippo.

TIM
You smoke?

ARCHIVIST
No. And I don’t allow ignition sources in my archive!

TIM
Okay. Is there anything unusual about it?

ARCHIVIST
Not really. Just a sort of spider web design on the front. Doesn’t mean anything to me. You?

TIM
Ah no. No.

ARCHIVIST
Well… show it to the others, see what they think. You said there was something else as well?

TIM
Oh, ah yes, yeah, it was sent straight to the Artefact Storage, a table of some sort. Ah, looks old. Quite pretty, though. Fascinating design on it.

ARCHIVIST
Tim… Tim, it doesn’t have a hole in it, does it? About six inches square?

TIM
Ah… I don’t know. Maybe? Um, I’ll be honest I didn’t really notice. It was quite -

ARCHIVIST
Hypnotic, yes. Do you know who made the delivery? Did they sign in?

TIM
Um… ah no, ah, sorry, no, I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
I need to talk to Martin. Uh, end recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Tell me again.

MARTIN
Again?

ARCHIVIST
I want it on tape.

MARTIN
What? Why?

ARCHIVIST
I just want a record. To make sure I have something I can check.

MARTIN
Okay, fine. There were two delivery men. They were big, and they spoke with cockney accents that might have been fake, and they delivered a package for you. I don’t remember anything else about what they looked like.

ARCHIVIST
Nothing at all?

MARTIN
[Exasperated] They looked normal. Like you’d expect. They looked like two, huge, cockney delivery men. I don’t know what else you want?

ARCHIVIST
What about the table?

MARTIN
I didn’t see the table. I guess Rosie must have signed for it. I mean, it’s her office on the way to Artefact Storage, that makes sense.

ARCHIVIST
She says the same as you. Two men, doesn’t know how they got in, too intimidated to ask, looked “exactly like you’d expect”. Useless…

MARTIN
Sorry… Look, John, I do think we should destroy the table, though. I mean, if it’s the one from Amy Patel’s statement. Just in case.

ARCHIVIST
Elias told me the same thing. Luckily he phrased it as advice rather than an instruction, so for now I’m more inclined to keep studying it. We’re not in the business of destroying knowledge.

MARTIN
I suppose. Can I go now?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, go on.

MARTIN
Thank you.

[DOOR OPENS]
Look, you need to get some sleep.

…

I’ll see you later.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Waste of tape, really. He’s right. Might as well get some use out of it.

Statement of Jason North, regarding the discovery of an alleged ritual site found near Loch Glass in Scotland. Original statement given August 6th, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I just need to know if you can save my son. I’ve asked and asked and your people only ever tell me to write my statement. Put it down on paper for investigation. Is that going to help? No. Of course it isn’t. Even if you had the power to do something, would you? Or would you rather watch my son burn so you can take notes.

I’ve been drinking. You can probably tell from the stains. Well, I don’t plan to apologise for ruining your precious paper, and I don’t plan to stop. Only way to keep the fear from settling in. If I’m scared I’m going to lose Ethan like I lost everything else, then I’ll curl into a ball and never get up. I won’t be able to do anything to stop it. I won’t let my son burn, even if you cowards don’t have the guts to step up and do something.

I’m sorry. I know. There’s no-one to blame by my own stupid self. Blundering in where I had no right to go. But yes, I know, you want the whole goddamn story, don’t you? So you can look over it in ten years and go “Hmm, interesting” long after Ethan and me are dead. Well, fine. There’s not much to it, really. For everything it’s done to me, I didn’t really do anything at all. Just messed around in the wrong clearing.

I’m an ecologist. Was an ecologist. Working for the Forestry Commission up in Scotland. It was a great job. For me, at least. I suppose if you don’t like hiking or being alone you’d have a hard time with it, but for me it was a great fit. Now, up in the north of Scotland, the bit without all the people, there are plantations of evergreen trees. Huge ones. And their job is the same as pretty much any other tree - to get cut down for wood. Trouble is, a lot of animals make their homes in and around those trees. Badgers, red squirrels, even pine martens. Do you know what a pine marten is? It’s a wee bear. An adorable wee bear that needs to be protected. Because the pine marten, like a lot of other species that live in those areas, is protected by conservation laws; can’t be legally killed without the sort of special permissions logging companies rarely have. So it was my job to walk through all these plantations with a clipboard and note down what animals had made their homes where.

You don’t need me to tell you that the job can me a long way from civilisation at times. Some of these plantations are… off the beaten track. Everyone gets so caught up on how small Scotland is compared to other countries, but it’s still huge compared to a single idiot wandering through the forests. And there aren’t so many people, so you have large areas all but devoid of human life. It wasn’t uncommon for me to find myself an hour or more away from a town or main road or any other human life at all. I didn’t mind being alone, though, because I knew I had my little boy Ethan waiting for me back at home. Four years old and already sharp as anything. And my wife Lucy. She used to be waiting for me as well.

You see… plenty of strange things out here. That far from anywhere, a lot of folks use it as their own personal dumping grounds. Fridges, microwaves, barbed wire, all sorts. Occasionally strewn throughout the forests and over the hills. I even found a corpse once. Not as exciting as it sounds - they were far too decomposed for me to tell anything about the death. Could have been a mafia hit or could have been a hiker having a heart attack. Result was the same for me: radio it in and then lose two hours of light babysitting a dead guy while I wait for someone to get up and take charge of it.

So when I saw the clearing in the trees near Loch Glass I wasn’t worried. I figured I’d seen everything messed up the forest had to offer. Heck, I even saw a friend of mine get impaled on a falling tree once. I reckoned there was nothing left to shock me. It didn’t matter that the hairs on my arm began to stand up, or that I started sweating through my coat in the middle of February, or that that dry acrid taste at the back of my throat made me want to gag. I still headed on over to investigate this odd-looking clearing.

It wasn’t man made, or at least nobody had cut trees down to make it. It looked as though the trees had been deliberately planted in a circle. If that was the case, judging by their growth they must have been planted like that almost fifty years ago. In the centre was a large piece of stone, crudely hacked into what looked like a small seat or… maybe an altar. As I stood there on the edge, I realised the trees around me were completely silent, and after a few seconds of examination saw that it didn’t look like there were any animals at all around this clearing. It was… unsettling, sure, but it also meant that I had all the information I needed for my survey of that area. I could tick the boxes and move on. I didn’t need to enter the clearing. But I did.

The moment I crossed that threshold I knew I had made a mistake. It was like an electric shock rushing through my body, and my already warm skin began to prickle and burn. I stripped off my jacket with sweat dripping from my fingers, and reached for my water to try and get rid of that foul taste in my throat. I pulled the cap off and took a long swig… half a second before I realised the water was boiling hot. I screamed; well, it was more a gurgle, really, and fell to the floor in agony.

I lay there for almost half an hour, collecting myself and just breathing in the cold winter air of the Highlands, waiting for the pain to die down. Eventually, I managed to compose myself and stagger to my feet. The strange sensations were still there, but I was able to mostly choke them down, at least until I had a proper look around the clearing. The altar was the focus of the whole thing, but in many ways it was the least interesting part. Clean, smooth stone. No markings of any sort, nothing on top. Just… a rock. Around it, though, on the ground, were scorch marks. They didn’t seem to radiate out from any one angle, they just covered areas of the forest floor. There was no ash, though, or debris, or anything that might have meant a fire, just the burn marks.

It was following these scorches that led me to the really messed up stuff, because what I saw around the edges of the clearing put them to shame. See, it looked like there were animals in that place once, but now each one lay just beyond the edge. On all of them, the fur or feathers had been burned away, and all that was left was their skin, scalded a vivid, angry red, like they’d been badly sunburned. They were dead, every one of them, though none seemed to have decayed any more than their compatriots. Either they had all died together, or something in that place was keeping them fresh. Neither option sounded grand to me.

Finally, I looked at the trees. There was nothing wrong with the trees themselves, not exactly. Driven into the trunk of each one was a heavy-looking iron nail. I didn’t count how many there were in total, maybe a couple dozen. Each suspended a worn and dirt-caked glass milk bottle that had clearly seen better days. My eyes fell on the string used to suspend them, and I couldn’t help but notice it seemed far cleaner and newer than the bottles or their contents.

What was inside each one seemed to vary, some had pine needles and twigs, some were full of dirt, and one or two even held what appeared to be rainwater, though looking closer I could see that it bubbled very gently inside those bottles in an endless simmer. In each I could also see a small photograph, half-buried in dirt or almost boiled clean. They all looked to be the same photograph, though it was hard to tell for sure. An old woman, probably in her fifties or sixties, wearing reading glasses and grey hair curled into a tight bun. She stared out disapprovingly from every bottle.

Weirdest of all, on the bottom of each was tied a lock of hair. It was long and grey, in poor condition, and I reckon it must have belonged to the woman in the photograph. It was tied up with the same new string as held the bottles, except for the fact that it was burned, ever so slightly, at the ends.

I was still in quite a lot of pain from the water earlier, but I’ve always been too curious for my own stupid good. I took a few pictures on my phone, but I wanted some clear shots of the photograph inside to show my friends. God knows I should have just left; it’s not like there weren’t plenty of warning signs. I just chose not to pay attention. I picked up one of jars filled with twigs and took it off the nail, trying to angle it in my hand to get a better shot of the contents.

Then my fingers slipped and I dropped it. I watched it plummet towards the hard winter ground, willing it not to shatter, not to break. It was falling so slowly, but I was even slower. It exploded into a thousand glass shards and instantly I knew that I had meddled with something I should have left alone. I turned tail and ran, stopping only to reach down and pick up the photograph. I don’t know why, I suppose it felt so weird all of a sudden that I didn’t think I could get any more cursed. And I wanted a copy of that picture just to prove to myself that what I had found was real. It was real. You can have the damn thing now, though. I’ll leave it with my statement. I know in my heart getting rid of it will make no difference, but I have to try.

Because from that moment on, everything I love and value has burned or been destroyed. My car overheated on the way back to the Forestry Commission, and I barely got out before the engine caught fire. My house was a smouldering heap of blackened rubble before the end of the week. Electrical failure. I don’t want to talk about what happened to Lucy. I don’t want to think about her face at the end.

Now there’s only one thing I have left that I value. That I love. And I cannot lose him. I can’t lose Ethan. I shouldn’t be in this mess. It’s absurd. I didn’t do anything wrong. I just dropped a bottle. That’s all! I don’t deserve this. I don’t.

I asked about who might have gone to the area, but aside from some middle-aged businessmen on a hiking trip, no-one’s been anywhere near that clearing for years. There is no reason this is happening, but I’m still going to lose everything. I am so scared.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

He didn’t, in the end. Lose Ethan, that is. Ethan North is currently a healthy eleven-year-old boy living with a loving foster family in Inverness. They declined to give an interview. I can’t say I blame them. The rest is a standard muddle - Tim couldn’t find evidence of the clearing, Sasha established all the accidents that befell Mr. North and his loved ones appeared mundane in nature. The set-up of the clearing matches rituals or spells in both voodoo and Wicca, but nothing definitive, and there is no hard evidence of anything supernatural occurring.

There’s no reason to believe that when Jason North doused himself in petrol on August the 10th, 2009, then lit himself on fire, he was doing anything other than acting out the delusions of a paranoid alcoholic. Paramedics took him to Raigmore Hospital, where he died three days later. He never regained consciousness.

I suppose there is one piece of evidence. Mr. North did include with his statement the picture he found in the bottle. It is a photograph of Gertrude Robinson, my predecessor at the Magnus Institute, circa 2002, as best I can tell. I have no idea what this means. I have no idea what any of this means. I’m very tired.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Andre Ramao, regarding a series of misplaced objects lost over the course of three months. Original statement given June 6th 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Thank you for lending me your pen. I thanked you when you handed it to me, but I don’t know if you’ll remember. I wonder, will you… forget you lent it to me and believe that it was my pen all along? Maybe instead you’ll forget that I ever had one to begin with, and think of me as an idiot who turned up to give a statement without a pen, so you had to lend me yours. My own fault for putting it down, really. Assuming I did ever have one. I’ll try to keep a slightly closer hold on this one.

I’ve been in the antiques business for a long time. It’s not what it used to be. [Nervous chuckle] I’m sorry, I know. I always did that, try to make myself feel more comfortable with jokes. There’s a follow up to that one, you know. Something along the lines of the joke being so old only an antiques dealer would be able to sell it. I love that one; I think it’s clever, but in my whole life it’s only ever gotten a laugh once. That’s why I remember buying the vase so clearly. I remember that the seller laughed.

In the old days, I never would have considered buying wares from the likes of Mikaele Salesa. He has a good reputation for quality, but a… bad reputation for legality, as it were. I’ve had more than one acquaintance sell on a particularly valuable find they got from him, only to discover that it didn’t have proper import papers, or that it had been reported stolen years before. Charlie Miller even did some jail time over a Georgian brooch he bought off him, so as a general rule I’d have given Salesa’s stuff a wide berth, but… Well, the antiques business isn’t what it used to be. That isn’t a joke. I had to close up my shop a few years ago, you see. Actual antiques don’t sell to the mass market anymore. Oh, young people will snap up vintage clothes or have any number of cheap faux-antique replicas strewn about their living rooms, but as soon as they get a look at the price tag for the real thing? They’re out of there like a shot.

So I went the same way as a lot of my peers. Lose the premises, start selling only high-margin goods direct to specific clients who can afford them, or shift a few guaranteed sellers on the auction. It’s the only real way to stay afloat in the business nowadays, but the competition is intense, and getting the calibre of artefact you need has become a more cutthroat affair. I’m not the only one in the business to recently soften their attitude towards buying from people like Mikaele Salesa.

It was my first meeting with him, back in March, and I was nervous, so I told my joke. Just off-hand, almost a reflex. I didn’t expect any reaction, really, I… I certainly didn’t expect him to laugh. But he did, this sudden, deep, throaty laugh that seemed to come out of nowhere. He didn’t say anything afterwards, just continued discussing business. But it stayed with me. There was nothing particularly strange about the laugh, not really. Why do I remember it so clearly?

Salesa was taking me through his ‘showroom’. There was a fancy-looking sign above the door, but it didn’t do much to hide the fact that it was basically a warehouse. More of the antiques were still in their packing crates, and I couldn’t help making a note of how quick and easy it would be for him to pack everything down and disappear if he needed to. Still, I’d made a few good purchases already and was cautiously optimistic. I’d bought a pair of cavalry sabres from the Revolutionary War, absolutely excellent condition, and a British artilleryman’s tunic from World War I, a few other bits and pieces as well. I recall I felt a moment of relief that I didn’t deal in books, as I caught sight of several crates packed to the brim with heavy-looking volumes. I was looking for something big, though. Something that would make an actual dent in the mountain of debt I’d been piling up.

I found it in that old Chinese pot. From the Jiajing period, so Salesa said, and the construction seemed to back him up. The glaze and the workmanship fitted with mid-to-late Ming dynasty, but there was something… off about the actual design. Instead of the pictures or scenes common to the ceramics of the period, the blue glaze was painted on in crisp, thin geometric lines. They repeated perfectly and seemed to get smaller and more intricate the closer I looked, but the shapes they formed never lost any of the precision, seeming to continue on however closely I looked. The effect was disorientating, and made the vase seem smaller than it actually was. It made my head hurt a bit when I looked at it for too long. It was amazing.

When he saw me staring, Salesa clapped me on the back and named a price that almost made me choke. We haggled a bit, and eventually reached a price I considered only a little bit unreasonable. I hurried my purchases home, feeling slightly soiled by my visit to the warehouse, and very much hoping it would be a good few months, if not years, before I was in such dire straits that I needed to go again. I got home, had a shower and some food and immediately started to look into finding a buyer for my latest acquisitions. I remember I was planning to make a few calls, but my headache got so bad that I had to have an early night.

The problems started soon after. It was little things at first. Like my shoes. I’m not a particularly fashion-conscious man at the best of times, so I have three pairs of shoes. Comfortable loafers for everyday use, a pair of walking boots for hiking, and some well-shined, polished, leather brogues for fancier events. Well, I had a rather upmarket auction that I needed to attend, so I went to put on my nice shoes, but they were nowhere to be found. Not the shoes, not the box I kept them in. Instead there was bag containing two shirts that I know for a fact I threw away the year before. When I asked my husband, David, about it, he told me point blank that I had never had any such shoes. Claimed I always wore my loafers when I went to auctions or parties.

I know that compared to some of the ghost stories you must hear in this place, a pair of misplaced shoes seems perfectly trivial, but something felt so… wrong about the whole situation. In the end I did go in my loafers. I don’t remember if anyone at the auction noticed.

It was about a week later that I got the invoice from Salesa. It was a pleasant surprise, far less than I thought we’d agreed on. That feeling lasted until I looked through the itemised list and realised why the cost was so low. He hadn’t charged me for the Ming. I’ll admit that I was somewhat conflicted over whether to raise the issue, but in the end I decided that even if Mikaele Salesa did work with thieves, I was not going to be counted among them. So I phoned him to try and explain the mistake.

He seemed to be in a fine mood when he answered the phone, and asked me if I’d had a chance to try out the sabres yet, which I’m pretty sure was a joke. I told him that there was an item he’d missed off the invoice, and he said that no, everything had been double-checked and was correct. I was getting suspicious at this point, and thought he might be trying to pull a fast one of some sort with me, maybe get me to take the blame for some illicit scheme gone wrong. I told him so in no uncertain terms, and described our encounter and the vase in minute detail. He was quiet for a few seconds, and then asked me if I could send him a photo of the pot. His tone was different, and he sounded oddly wary when he made the request. I was very on edge by this point, but could come up with no good reason not to agree, so I took a few pictures with my phone and sent them through to him.

It was a long time before he spoke again, and when he did he sounded… different. Almost scared, I thought. He told me that I could keep it. No charge. I began to protest again, but he ignored it. I remember his exact words: “I do not remember having that thing, which means it belongs to you.” Then he hung up.

This was all very strange, of course, but even then I wasn’t worried. Not like I should have been.

It was my book next. A signed copy of Catch-22, my favourite book. Vanished from its place on my bookshelf, leaving only an empty space behind. David just gave me another blank stare when I asked him about it. I admit I almost lost it at him then. Shoes were one thing, but that book meant a lot to me. I accused him of playing some stupid joke, and tried to remind him what I’d gone through to get it, flying over to America for Joseph Heller’s last book tour, queuing for hours and then that dreadful evening I thought that sudden rainstorm had ruined it all. By the end he was looking… very alarmed indeed and started to ask me how I was feeling. He wanted to know if I’d been under a lot of stress at work, if there was anything I wanted to talk about. I left.

Maybe he was right. Maybe I am crazy. It makes a lot more sense, doesn’t it? It would make it neat. Except no. No, I would need to have gone mad a long, long time before this for the idea of it being in my head to hold up. My perceptions are the only ones I can trust. Maybe. I don’t know.

This went on for months. The tie I got for my last birthday, my grandfather’s teapot, the tunic I bought from Salesa, things just kept going missing, and every time David would tell me that whatever it was didn’t exist. Or it wasn’t mine. Or I was misremembering. For a while I thought he was actually trying to gaslight me, make me think I was losing my mind, but when the tunic went missing, I called Salesa again. This time he laughed when he told me that he didn’t remember selling any World War I items to me on my visit. I checked the invoice, and it was no longer listed there. Just empty, accusing paper where the words had been.

I know these things were real. I know they existed. Why won’t anyone just believe me?

This is where I started to come undone a bit. To be honest, I don’t think anyone would do much better in my situation. I hadn’t made any connection between the old Chinese pot and the disappearances. I mean, why would I? But I also hadn’t been able to sell it. Whenever I tried, something would get in the way. The other person would forget to send through a crucial email, or they’d stop responding. Once I managed to get it as far as posting it out to a buyer, but it was returned immediately with a note asking why it had been sent to her. Gradually, I began to get suspicious of the thing. Sitting there, with its cascading, maddening patterns in that vile cobalt blue. Trying to tell me that I things didn’t exist, that they hadn’t vanished when I know they have.

I took to watching it. I wasn’t getting much sleep and David was worried sick about me. I know he was talking to various doctors about getting me help. There were certainly a couple of points I was worried about him having me sectioned. None of it helps in the end.

It was about a month ago. I had placed the vase in the centre of the table, and was sat staring at it. Keeping an eye on it. Checking for… god knows what. This had been my ritual for the previous week, keeping my vigil into the small hours, but that night… that night I fell asleep in front of it. I don’t remember my dream. Running, maybe? I know I woke with a start sometime around 2 in the morning.

As I tried to rub the sleep from my eyes, I heard a sound from the table in front of me. It was the dull thump of a heavy book hitting the tabletop. I looked and, sure enough, there was my copy of Catch-22, just lying there in front of that strange ceramic thing. And not just my book, there was a small pile of objects around the base. My shoes, a tie, things I don’t even remember losing. One by one they rose up out of the mouth of the vase and tumbled to the table. It didn’t matter how big they were, they all seemed to fit.

And then came the moment when everything had been disgorged. I saw all the things that I had lost, and I thought it must be over. It must be done. What else could possibly come of there? And I saw the pale shapes of long, thin fingertips begin to creep above the lip of the pot. I remember thinking that it couldn’t be a normal person living in that pot, because the fingernails were too dirty. Isn’t that an odd thing to think at a time like that?

I ran, of course. Turned around and sprinted out of the door and into the street and didn’t return until morning. Maybe I should have called the police, but I was in no state to do much of anything except shiver under a tree for hours. David was gone. I allowed myself some brief hope that maybe he’d just left me, maybe he’d escape with just a divorce. But no. One call to the housing association confirmed that, as far as they were concerned, I’d always lived alone.

I want to smash that thing. I want to dash its maddening patterns to the ground and stomp on it until there is nothing left but powder. But it’s also disappeared, of course. I can’t find it anywhere. It’s still taking things, though. Sorry about your pen.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Before I dig too deeply into the background of this statement, I feel I should mention something that puts much of it in a slightly different light. Tim actually managed to find a copy of Mr. Ramao’s marriage licence. It exists, is signed, dated and official, and half of it is blank. Only Mr. Ramao’s details are on the document, and if it wasn’t for the context of this statement, it would appear he was married to nobody. But he was married.

This is not the first time Mikaele Salesa’s name has come to the attention of the Institute. Even discounting the incidental role he played in case #0112905, he appears to have something of a knack for locating objects displaying more… disconcerting phenomena. I believe some of the more bizarre things in the Artefact Storage area were purchased from him. It has been something of a -

Urgh. Urgh.

[SOUND OF CHAIR SCRAPING]
I see you…

[THUMP… THEN SOUND OF COLLAPSING SHELVES]
[NOISES OF EXCLAMATION]
[DOOR OPENS]
SASHA
Alright?

ARCHIVIST
Ah… Yeah. A… spider.

SASHA
A spider?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. I tried to kill it…. the shelf collapsed.

SASHA
I swear, cheap shelves are… Did you get it?

ARCHIVIST
Ah… I hope so. Thinks so. Nasty, bulbous looking thing.

SASHA
[Chuckles] Well, I won’t tell Martin.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, god. I don’t think I could stand another lecture on their importance to the ecosystem.

[SHUFFLING NOISES]
What?

SASHA
Look.

ARCHIVIST
Oh… uh… Got dented when the shelf collapsed, I guess.

SASHA
No, it, it goes right through. I, I thought this was an exterior wall?

ARCHIVIST
It should be.

SASHA
Hmm. I, I think it’s just plasterboard.

[LOW NOISES OF DEBRIS]
Do you see anything?

[QUIET, BUILDING SOUND OF WET WRIGGLING]
ARCHIVIST
No, I don’t think so, it…

[WORM SOUND INTENSIFIES]
Sasha, run. RU -

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[WRITHING WORM SOUNDS]
SASHA
What are you doing?!

ARCHIVIST
Almost…

SASHA
Leave it, it’s not -

ARCHIVIST
I got it!

[PULLS SOMETHING FROM THE MORASS]
MARTIN
Guys? Is everyth - OH CHRIST!

ARCHIVIST
Shut up and get the extinguishers!

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
The CO2! Get the goddamn CO2!

MARTIN
Right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, yep.

ARCHIVIST
NOW!

[WRITHING CONTINUES AS EXTINGUISHER SPRAYS]
MARTIN
There’s too many…

SASHA
Just keep spraying!

ARCHIVIST
We need to go!

SASHA
Where?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… Uh…

SASHA
Damn!

ARCHIVIST
I just… uh… let, let me think!

SASHA
Do you see Prentiss? If we could get her -

MARTIN
I, I, I don’t see her! I don’t see her! I don’t see her! I don’t see her!

ARCHIVIST
Uhhh…

SASHA
John?

John!?

MARTIN
This way!

Come on! Come this way! This way, this way!

[RUNNING, PURSUED BY WORMS]
ARCHIVIST
Erm…

LOOK OUT!

[CRASH]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SOUND CUTS IN MIDWAY THROUGH THE ARCHIVIST SCREAMING]
MARTIN
And… there we go. Recording again.

Did you get it?

[PAINED CRY FROM ARCHIVIST AS SASHA EXTRACTS WORM WITH A SQUELCH]
SASHA
There. And I just want to point out that I didn’t make this much of a fuss.

ARCHIVIST
[Breathing heavily, aggrieved tone] I think your removal was substantially cleaner.

SASHA
I’m still not sure why you have this. Drinking in the archives?

MARTIN
What? No, no, it’s for worms.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
For pulling the worms out of people. Like now.

SASHA
You, er… what?

MARTIN
I used to carry around a knife, but I started thinking that, well, cutting into someone laterally wasn’t really the most efficient way to get them out, and besides which, they seem to be quite slow burrowing in a straight line so, given their size, th-the corkscrew just seemed to be the better option.

…

Look, you guys got to go home every day, okay. I didn’t! I’ve been thinking for a long time about what to do when… well, y’know, this happens.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Well… thank you.

SASHA
That’s why we’re here?

MARTIN
Yeah. The room’s sealed, I checked it myself when I moved in.

ARCHIVIST
Climate controlled, as well. Strong door. Soundproof. [Sigh] These old files are far better protected than we ever were. Alright, I’ll grant you it’s a good place to lay low, but -

SASHA
They could still come in through the air con.

ARCHIVIST
Not easily. And… not en masse. It is actually safe.

MARTIN
Ha!

ARCHIVIST
Except, of course, that we’re trapped.

MARTIN
Ah… yeah.

Sorry.

…

SASHA
Why record it?

ARCHIVIST
What?

SASHA
Before, in the office. It, it was stupid going for the tape recorder like that, and then when you dropped it out there -

ARCHIVIST
I said I was sorry. If I’d known Martin had another one stashed in here, I never would have…

SASHA
No, it’s, it’s fine, just… I just don’t understand. I thought you hated the damn thing. You’re always going on about it.

ARCHIVIST
I do! I did. I just… I don’t want to become a mystery. I refuse to become another goddamn mystery.

SASHA
What?

ARCHIVIST
Look, even if you ignore the walking soil-sack out there, and the fact that we are probably minutes from death, there is still so much more happening here.

MARTIN
I’m not sure we can really ignore the -

ARCHIVIST
Every real statement just leads… deeper into something I don’t even know the shape of yet. And to top it all, I still don’t know what happened to Gertrude. Officially she’s still missing, but Elias is no help and the police were pretty clear that the wait to call her dead is just a formality. If I die, wormfood or… something else, whatever, I’m going to make damn sure the same doesn’t happen to me. Whoever takes over from me is going to know exactly what happened.

SASHA
You don’t think that would… put them off?

ARCHIVIST
[Bitter laugh] I hope so. Only an idiot would stay in this job.

MARTIN
[Chuckles] Wouldn’t that make you an idiot?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Martin, that was my point.

…

SASHA
Can you see what’s going on out there?

MARTIN
Ish. When did we last clean these doors?

ARCHIVIST
What can you see?

MARTIN
Worms seem to have backed off a bit. There’s a few lurking in the corners. Ooh, ooh hey, there’s the other tape recorder!

SASHA
Any sign of Prentiss?

MARTIN
No. No, it looks like they’re… waiting, I think.

ARCHIVIST
For what?

MARTIN
I don’t know. Tim, maybe?

SASHA
Oh god!

MARTIN
I think he was out at lunch.

SASHA
Quick, someone call him. Tell him not to come back inside.

ARCHIVIST
There’s no signal in here. We just have to hope he heard the noise.

…

SASHA
John, what did you mean by “real statements”?

ARCHIVIST
You know what I mean. The ones that have weird wrinkles, or that just seem to have something solid to them. They all have one thing in common.

SASHA
They don’t record digitally.

ARCHIVIST
And we have to use the tape recorder. At this stage, if it records to my laptop I almost don’t bother. I don’t -

MARTIN
There! There, there, there! I see him!

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
Tim. Tim’s outside.

SASHA
Oh god, he doesn’t know. He doesn’t see them.

[SASHA AND MARTIN BOTH START CALLING OUT TO TIM]
TIM, LOOK OUT!

ARCHIVIST
It’s soundproofed. He can’t hear you!

SASHA
What is he doing? No, Tim, just run! Leave it alone!

MARTIN
Oh no, no, no, no…

SASHA
Turn around. Just turn around.

MARTIN
Oh god. There she is, there she is.

ARCHIVIST
[Muttering] There’s nothing we can do.

SASHA
Ah, screw this.

ARCHIVIST
What, Sasha, NO!

[DOOR OPENS]
SASHA
Tim, look out!

ARCHIVIST
Watch out for the tape -

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
…still working? Ah, okay. Test, test. What are you doing on the floor? Huh. [Imitates Archivist voice] Statement of Joe Spooky, regarding sinister happenings in the downtown old -

[DOOR OPENS]
SASHA
Tim, look out!

[WORM SOUND INTENSIFIES]
TIM
Sasha?

SASHA
Behind you! Run!

TIM
Oh…

PRENTISS
[Slowly intoning over worm sound] Do you hear their song?

SASHA
TIM!

[IMPACT, WORMS AND SCUFFLING]
[SASHA BREATHING HEAVILY AS SHE STUMBLES THROUGH DOORS]
SASHA
Damn it!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Right. There we go. Martin, what do you see?

MARTIN
Hm? What?

ARCHIVIST
I can’t really stand up yet. I need you to describe what’s going on. For the record.

MARTIN
Ah, yeah. Sure. So, um, Sasha tackled Tim and there was kind of a struggle, but she made it out of the Archives. That, that was about two minutes ago and she’s gone to get help. P-Probably. I mean, she, she couldn’t… she wouldn’t just run so…

ARCHIVIST
Did it look like any of the worms… got her before she left?

MARTIN
No. I don’t think so. Tim neither, I think. It was hard to tell after she tackled him. There was just a lot of movement and, and shouting and, and wriggling…

ARCHIVIST
Stay with it, Martin. Tim. What happened to Tim?

MARTIN
They got split up and he ran into the office. You said that’s where you made the hole. When you were recording. And they all came through, so… he’s dead. He’s dead in there and he’s covered in worms and that’s it.

ARCHIVIST
We don’t know that.

MARTIN
…Maybe.

Maybe, maybe he found the spare CO2.

ARCHIVIST
Spare? What? Where? I never saw any.

MARTIN
Oh, I, er… I, I hid them in old casefile boxes.

ARCHIVIST
What, why?

MARTIN
Well, so the worms didn’t know they were there!

Look, I know it’s stupid.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes it is. They’re just… they’re just unclassified parasites. They don’t have consciousness, they can’t plan, they’re just an unthinking infection.

MARTIN
Seriously?!

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
Why do you do that?

ARCHIVIST
Do what?

MARTIN
Push the sceptic thing so hard!? I mean, it made sense at first, but now? After everything we’ve seen, after everything you’ve read! I hear you recording statements and y-you just dismiss them. Your tear them to pieces like they’re wasting your time, but half of the “rational” explanations you give are actually more far-fetched than just accepting it was a, a ghost or something. I mean for god’s sake John, we’re literally hiding from some kind of worm… queen… thing, how, how could you possibly still not believe!?

ARCHIVIST
Of course, I believe. Of course I do. Have you ever taken a look at the stuff we have in Artefact storage? That’s enough to convince anyone. But, but even before that… Why do you think I started working here? It’s not exactly glamorous. I have… I’ve always believed in the supernatural. Within reason. I mean. I still think most of the statements down here aren’t real. Of the hundreds I’ve recorded, we’ve had maybe… thirty, forty that are… that go on tape. Now, those, I believe, at least for the most part.

MARTIN
Then why do you -

ARCHIVIST
Because I’m scared, Martin!. Because when I record these statements it feels… it feels like I’m being watched. I… I lose myself a bit. And then when I come back, it’s like… like if I admit there may be any truth to it, whatever’s watching will… know somehow. The scepticism, feigning ignorance. It just felt safer.

MARTIN
Well… It wasn’t.

ARCHIVIST
No. No, it wasn’t.

Still, it’s not my fault we’re going to be eaten by worms. Speaking of, can you see anything?

MARTIN
Not much. They’re just… there.

ARCHIVIST
How many?

MARTIN
Too many. And more keep coming up through the floor. I didn’t think they could get through.

ARCHIVIST
Prentiss?

MARTIN
No, I can’t s… Oh, there she is.

ARCHIVIST
What’s she doing?

MARTIN
I don’t know. She’s messing with the boxes. She’s holding one up and… ahh!

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
She’s… She’s destroying them. Sort of.

ARCHIVIST
Sort of?

MARTIN
Well, I don’t really know what that stuff coming out of her mouth is, but I think we should probably burn them.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

Right.

…

Why are you here Martin?

MARTIN
Well, well, Prentiss is out there and you can’t run so -

ARCHIVIST
I mean at the Archive in general. Why haven’t you quit?

MARTIN
Are you giving me my review now?

ARCHIVIST
No… We’re clearly doing a whole heart-to-heart thing and, truth be told, the question’s been bothering me. You’ve been living in the Archives for four months, constant threat of… this. Sleeping with a fire extinguisher and a corkscrew. Even you must be aware that that’s not normal for an archiving job? Why are you still here?

MARTIN
[Considering] Don’t really know. I just am. It didn’t feel right to just leave. I’ve typed up a few resignation letters, but I just couldn’t bring myself to hand them in.

I’m trapped here. It’s like I can’t… move on and the more I struggle, the more I’m stuck.

ARCHIVIST
Martin…You’re not, uh… You didn’t die here, did you?

MARTIN
What? What? N-No… what?!

ARCHIVIST
No, I just… No, just the way you phrased that…

MARTIN
Made you think I was a ghost?

ARCHIVIST
No… it’s -

MARTIN
No, no… it’s just that whatever web these statements have caught you in, well, I’m there too. We all are, I think. [Sigh]

…

A ghost? Really?

ARCHIVIST
[Tiredly] Shut up, Martin.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[FIRE ALARM IS SOUNDING]
ELIAS
Right, tell me again, please.

SASHA
You’re kidding.

ELIAS
You did bring a tape recorder. I just thought John would appreciate as many supplementary recordings as possible. For the record.

SASHA
Well, for the record, if we don’t do something now, it won’t matter either way.

ELIAS
So… these are the worms he and Martin have been going on about?

SASHA
The ones terrorising us for months? Yeah!

ELIAS
To be honest I always thought they were just… overreacting. Other staff have seen them around, but no-one’s reported any aggressive behaviour or anything like that. You know how those two are… John puts on a good show, but sometimes I swear he’s worse than Martin.

SASHA
Look, Elias. I don’t know what you think is going on, but I have just seen thousands of… fleshworms pouring out of the wall! God knows how long they’ve been hiding! Tim might be dead, and the others…

ELIAS
Of course. The fire alarm was a good move, but it does mean most staff have evacuated, so we’ll deal have to with them ourselves.

SASHA
There are thousands of them, Elias.

ELIAS
Not quite what I meant. On John’s insistence I recently changed the Archive’s fire suppression system to use carbon dioxide. Should have done it years ago, really -

SASHA
So why hasn’t it gone off?

ELIAS
Because there isn’t an actual fire.

SASHA
Right, right. Can we set it off manually? I think John’s got a lighter somewhere.

ELIAS
He’s not smoking again, is he? Anyway, it shouldn’t be necessary. There is a manual release, a few floors down.

SASHA
Wait. Wait. Will it hurt Martin or John?

ELIAS
Almost certainly. Er, I’m not a doctor, but I know dumping a lot of CO2 on people isn’t generally considered a good idea. I really don’t want to have to find another Archivist so quickly after Gertrude, but from what you say… it might be a mercy. You know the situation best, so…?

SASHA
Let’s go.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[FIRE ALARM CAN BE HEARD… AS CAN SOUND OF BANGING ON WALL]
MARTIN
I thought that wall was meant to be solid?!

ARCHIVIST
So did I. We don’t have any sort of weapon, do we?

MARTIN
I mean… I mean, I suppose we could use -

ARCHIVIST
Don’t say the corkscrew!

MARTIN
Okay.

ARCHIVIST
How many of them are outside of the door?

MARTIN
I don’t know. I can’t see because the window is covered in worms.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Right. Damn. Well, Martin I guess this is -

[SOUND OF PLASTERBOARD AND TILE BREAKING]
TIM
Hi guys!

MARTIN
Tim!

ARCHIVIST
Tim?! What the hell? I thought… how did you…?

MARTIN
You made it!

TIM
Funny story really. I ran into the office, worms everywhere, horrible death and everything, tripped and fell in some boxes and there were like 20 cans of gas in there.

MARTIN
Are, are you alright? You seem a bit…

TIM
Fine! Fine! Gas… bit light-headed. Not a lot of ventilation in the tunnels. Come on!

ARCHIVIST
In-Into the tunnels?

TIM
Yeah! Actually, not that many worms in there anymore. I think they’ve mostly gone into the Archive. Although the ones down here are faster for some reason. And quieter.

ARCHIVIST
You’re not bitten, are you?

TIM
No, I don’t think so! Have a look!

ARCHIVIST
Yes, alright Tim, you look fine. Put them back on, please.

MARTIN
Can can you walk, John?

ARCHIVIST
No, I can limp.

TIM
Then let’s go!

ARCHIVIST
Martin, could you pass me the tape recorder?

MARTIN
Sure. I think it’s running out, though.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I suppose I can turn it back on when we’re being eaten alive.

TIM
Why do you have a second tape recorder, Martin?

MARTIN
Oh, um… well, I’ve been using it to record myself. I write poetry and I think the tapes have a sort of… low-fi charm.

ARCHIVIST
…

I see.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
SASHA
[SPEECH IS ECHOED FROM THE ROOM AS SHE WALKS]
[With some despondency in tone] Okay, John. I know you’ll want to know what’s been happening. If you’re still alive after this. The worms are on the upper floor. Not as many as down in the Archive, but enough.

I set the fire alarm off, so everyone’s evacuated except me and Elias. I didn’t see any signs of the fire brigade, but I haven’t been near a window in a while. There was a… I guess you’d call it a… a wave of worms. I got cut off from Elias. I hope he made it to the fire system, but who knows. Maybe everyone’s dead already.

I’ve had to retreat into Artefact Storage. That should tell you something about how bad it is out there.

God, I hate this place.

Did I ever tell you I first joined the Institute as a practical researcher? I had to analyse and investigate all the stuff in here. Take notes after sleeping in the rusted chair, write in the memory book, all that sort of thing. I transferred after three months. Would’ve quit, but couldn’t afford to back then.

Never understood why they keep this stuff secret. I mean, we’ve, we’ve enough here to send any sceptic packing, but it’s just locked away. I… I asked Elias about it once, but he just muttered something about funding and mission statements. He’s good at changing the subject, isn’t he?

Sorry. I’m rambling. No worms, though, so that’s good.

Oh, hey. I’ve found… I’ve found that table you were talking about. Don’t really see what all the fuss is about. Just a… basic… optical illusion. Nothing special… just… just a… wait…

[Hushed and panicked] John! John, I think there’s someone here. Hello? I see you. Show yourself.

[DISTORTION INTENSIFIES]
[SASHA SCREAMS, TAPE RECORDER DROPS]
[DISTORTION FADES TO A CRACKLE]
NOT!SASHA
[Words warped] Hello?

I see you.

[FOOTSTEPS]
[Clearly] I see you.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[WATER DRIPS]
ARCHIVIST
Update. I don’t know how long we’ve been down here. These tunnels are a maze, and we don’t know where we are. We have four of the -

TIM
Martin’s gone.

ARCHIVIST
I’m getting to that. Martin has disappeared. Tim was right about there being fewer worms down here, but they are much faster. More aggressive. None of us have been hit yet but… during one of the more alarming encounters, Martin ran off.

TIM
He thought we were behind him, I think.

ARCHIVIST
He didn’t think at all. Tim was with me, and my leg slowed me down. He must have taken a turn we didn’t see or something. We lost him. But, Tim has managed to find what looks to be an actual trapdoor, so… we won’t need to bludgeon our way through any more drywall. I’m recording this in case -

TIM
In case the trapdoor opens back into the Archives and Prentiss is there to kill us.

ARCHIVIST
In as many words, yes. Tim?

TIM
Alright.

[TRAPDOOR IS PUSHED OPEN TO SOUND OF FIRE ALARM AND LOTS OF WRITHING]
PRENTISS
Archivist.

TIM
Ah.

ARCHIVIST
Shit.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
[Weary] Statement of, uh…

ELIAS
John… as your boss, I’m telling you to go home.

ARCHIVIST
I’m fine.

ELIAS
Look. You look like a mummy. You need rest.

ARCHIVIST
Our friends in the hazmat suits gave me a clean bill of health, bloody holes notwithstanding. And they seemed quite keen to quarantine anyone showing even the slightest sign of infection. It’s just pain.

ELIAS
The paramedics said your lungs need fresh air. Tim’s as well.

ARCHIVIST
It’s fresh enough down here.

ELIAS
A basement filled with a thousand rotting worm carcasses? Surely we could do this in my office?

ARCHIVIST
No. I need to be here. Keep watch. I need to be sure…

ELIAS
John! She’s gone. I went with the ECDC people when they took her away. I watched her body burn. Jane Prentiss is dead. You can relax.

ARCHIVIST
You know why I can’t. When Martin found…

ELIAS
That’s a matter for the police.

ARCHIVIST
Fine! Fine. I’ll go home as soon as I have everyone’s statements.

ELIAS
Very well.

ARCHIVIST
Statement of Elias Bouchard, Head of the Magnus Institute, regarding the… infestation by the entity formerly known as Jane Prentiss. Statement recorded direct from subject, 29th July, 2016. Whenever you’re ready.

ELIAS
There isn’t a lot to tell for my part. This afternoon, just after lunch, I was going over some budgets in my office, as I normally do on a Tuesday, when the fire alarm started going off. It was annoying, but not too worrying at first. I packed my work away, and began to calmly head towards the evacuation point, when Sasha came barrelling through the door, babbling about worms, and clutching a tape recorder.

I told her that whatever was wrong should wait until we were out of the building, as there may be a fire. She told me she had set off the fire alarm to get everyone out, and that you and Martin and Tim were currently trapped by Jane Prentiss.

Obviously this got my attention, and I suggested she turn the tape recorder on, largely so this sort of debrief wouldn’t be necessary. Did you not get the tape?

ARCHIVIST
No. There was… some sort of problem. Sasha tells me the tape was lost.

ELIAS
Hmm. Well, I explained to her about the recently installed fire suppression system, and said that, as there was no actual fire, we’d need to activate it manually. We hurried down, and it was clear everyone else had already evacuated. We… had reached the ground floor when… well…

I… know I have often seemed dismissive of your concerns before, and in fact I was getting ready to raise the issue of Martin’s continuing to live in the Institute’s basement, especially as I believe he’s been stealing fire extinguishers. But… honestly, I didn’t fully appreciate what you’d been talking about until I turned that corner and we saw what I can only describe as a… a tidal wave of filth rushing towards us. I feel somewhat ashamed to admit I didn’t really pay any attention to Sasha as I ran, and must have lost her at some point. We became separated.

I composed myself, and decided on a more roundabout route to the boiler room. Luckily, it seemed the things were mainly concentrated in that one mass, leaving the other corridors largely vacant. It took me ten minutes, maybe fifteen, but I made it with only one close call. The sight of rows and rows of huge, red CO2 canisters was certainly something of a comfort. I do apologise that it took me quite so long to figure out how to actually work the system. If I’d been quicker…

ARCHIVIST
It’s fine.

We’re alive.

ELIAS
Yes. Well. I turned on the fire suppression system. And… that’s when I heard the scream. I can’t really describe it but… well, I’m sure I don’t need to, you were a lot closer to it than I was.

ARCHIVIST
It’s the last thing I remember before blacking out. Tens of thousands of… things without mouths screaming as one.

ELIAS
…

Yes. Horrible sound. Anyway, I called the fire department, ambulance and a contact at the ECDC who had previously been involved in the Prentiss investigation. Once I was sure most of the gas would have dissipated, I headed down to the Archives to see what had happened. Sasha was already there, but you and Tim were in a bad shape. It looked like a few dozen worms had been going into each of you when the carbon dioxide killed them. Was like bloody Swiss che -

ARCHIVIST
Yes… thank you. I remember everything from when the ambulance arrived. Quarantine, bandaging, et cetera. When did Martin get back?

ELIAS
It was about an hour after they’d taken you and Tim away. They were prepping Prentiss’ corpse for disposal, when Martin burst out of that trapdoor you found, screaming that he’d found a body. So we called the police.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me what happened to Gertrude Robinson.

ELIAS
John, how many times do we need to go over this?

ARCHIVIST
We’ve never got it on tape.

ELIAS
You can barely stand. Just… why don’t we just do this tomorrow?

…

Fine.

On the 15th of March last year, I had a query about a statement one of our researchers was after and went down to the Archives. Gertrude wasn’t there, but her desk was covered in blood. I called the police, and there was a huge search, but there no sign was found of Gertrude, alive or dead. She didn’t have any assistants, so there were no witnesses, and no-one saw or heard anything.

The police tested the blood and confirmed the DNA matched to Gertrude, though I don’t know why they had her on file. They judged there to be almost a gallon of blood spilled, far more than the human body can lose and survive, so I assumed she was dead and left the investigation to the police, for all that good it did me. And I appointed another archivist.

Martin finding her body in the tunnels is as much a mystery to me as it is to you.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Right. Thank you, Elias. Statement ends.

Can you send in Tim?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
[Tired] Do you need much? I’d really like to go home.

ARCHIVIST
I sympathise. It won’t take more than a few minutes. I just… I need the parts that weren’t on tape at the time.

TIM
Sure. Just… quarantine, y’know? Not as much fun as it sounds.

ARCHIVIST
You were certainly in there longer than I was.

Everything alright?

TIM
Yeah, I just made some joke about itching and suddenly they were doing a whole bunch more tests.

ARCHIVIST
Well, itching is one of- TIM

I know! I know. I was trying to lighten the mood.

I’m fine, though. Except for the holes. And the pain. And the blood and the nightmares. Could’ve been worse though, eh? Another couple of minutes and-

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes. It was…

Anyway, statement of Timothy Stoker, archival assistant at the Magnus Institute, regarding the infestation by the entity formerly known as Jane Prentiss. Statement recorded direct from subject, 29th July 2016. Just take it from when you got back from lunch.

TIM
Well, I could tell something was wrong as soon as I got back. It was quiet. I mean, it’s normally quiet, but it was dead quiet. I spotted the tape recorder lying on the ground, and went over to, er, see if it was damaged, and as I was checking it I heard Sasha shouting. It’s a bit of blur, to be honest, ‘cause when I turned around, there she was. Prentiss. Her face so full of holes it’s like, “my eyes are up here”, but they’re not, you know? They’re just… She tried to say something, but I don’t know, I couldn’t really understand her through all the…

So, I could see the worms were coming through the floor, the walls, everywhere. The whole “we’re safe inside the Archive” thing” Not so much. I don’t know what I was going to do, I think I was going to try and hit her, but that’s when Sasha knocked me to the floor. It, it was a good move, actually. Prentiss didn’t seem to expect it, and we crushed a lot of worms when we fell. They were slow to react, and we were running before they really went for us. I mean, all this happened in the space of a few seconds, so I’m not exactly certain.

Sasha had to basically drag me behind her. I saw the shelf in front of us was about to topple. There were so many worms on it so, being the hero I am, I let go of her hand and told her to get help. She made it out the main door. I turned to run into the office. I was just trying to get a door between me and Prentiss. I didn’t know that’s where you made the first hole.

There were loads of them. Some jumped at me as I ran inside so I dodged out the way, but ended up sprawling into this pile of boxes that I thought were case files. Instead, I found myself lying on top of a whole bunch of CO2 canisters, which are damn hard by the way. The worms were still coming, so I used them. I mean, I went full Gas-Rambo.

After that… my memory gets a bit fuzzy. I think the paramedic called it ‘respiratory acidosis’… from breathing in all the carbon dioxide, rather than your more traditional oxygen. I remember finishing the first few extinguishers killing the things, but they kept coming, so I grabbed a few more, and saw the massive hole in the wall. There didn’t seem much point staying, so I went into the tunnels. They were cold, dry. You know that worm smell? That earthy rotten smell?

ARCHIVIST
Oh yes.

TIM
Well, yeah. There weren’t so many down there. I think they were almost all in the Archives. I have a theory, actually. I think they weren’t ready to attack when you found the tunnels. It’s like, something in the Institute slows them down, and makes them, um, heh, sluggish.

And that noise they make? That squirming sound? They don’t make it when they’re in the tunnels. I don’t know why. It was only when they came into the Institute. Maybe the light, or the aircon, or something? I’m not sure, but I think it made them weaker, and they’ve been down there for months, breeding, building up their numbers until there were enough to properly bury us. Except you found that hidden passage, and they had to act.

ARCHIVIST
Maybe. Could you… describe the tunnels?

TIM
You were there.

ARCHIVIST
Humour me.

TIM
I remember they sloped down and up and around. I couldn’t keep track of where I was. I did see some more worms, though. They were fast. I only saw a couple, but it was still proper jumpscare territory. I got them, though. It was really surreal. I only had my phone’s torch, and it was hard to keep an eye out, I was so light headed.

I wandered for, I don’t know, maybe ten minutes before I found a wall that seemed different. It looked like someone had just put some plasterboard over an entrance, and I could hear you and Martin on the other side. I broke through and, well, you were there for the rest.

ARCHIVIST
Quite. You… you weren’t there when Martin found the body, though, were you?

TIM
No. I was quarantined, same as you.

ARCHIVIST
And you didn’t see it in the tunnels when you were first exploring?

TIM
No. I did see… uh, I mean, maybe…

ARCHIVIST
What?

TIM
No, it’s just… I think I was still gassed, and it was dark, but… I found a room.

ARCHIVIST
Go on.

TIM
I didn’t stay long, ‘cause it had a lot of worms in, and they weren’t acting like the others. They were sort of… wrapping around each other, like they were trying to form a… thing, like a structure or something. A ring.

I was probably still out of my skull, and half-hallucinated the whole thing, but it looked like they were trying to make a doorway.

ARCHIVIST
A doorway? Is it still there?

TIM
No. I pumped two full extinguishers into that room. Nothing was getting out.

ARCHIVIST
Good. Good. Go home, Tim. Get some sleep.

TIM
Heh. Yeah. Sure.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sasha James, archival assistant at the Magnus Institute, regarding the invasion by the entity formerly known as Jane Prentiss. Statement recorded direct from subject, 29th July, 2016. In your own time.

NOT!SASHA
Yes… Where do you want me to begin? I was with you until I ran out to save Tim. Then we were separated, and I fled into the Institute proper. I pulled a fire alarm, because the worms were following me, and I didn’t want anyone else to get hurt. I went to Elias. We talked. We were going to save you, but the worms came, and I fled into the Artefact Storage room. You know I hate the Artefact Storage room, so it must have been bad.

ARCHIVIST
You used to work there, didn’t you?

NOT!SASHA
Yes, for three months. It was dreadful. I used to think that it was the most dangerous place in the Institute.

ARCHIVIST
Not anymore.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, not anymore. It was safe enough. The worms didn’t get in, and I stayed there until the fire system deployed, then I ran out to get to a window. I saw the worms in the main Institute. They shrivelled and died. I don’t think I’ll ever forget that scream, though. I could hear Prentiss screaming even from there.

ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s thanks to you, to be honest. If you hadn’t met that ‘Michael’ thing…

NOT!SASHA
Yes, Michael… With the bones in his hands. We still don’t know much about him, do we?

ARCHIVIST
No, not yet. Sorry, getting… distracted. You got as far as Jane Prentiss’ death.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, I returned to the Archives, and all the worms were dead. You and Tim were lying there, but you weren’t moving. You just lay there, the dead worms still half inside of you. The trapdoor was open next to you, and more were inside. I went over to check, and you were alive, so I pulled you back to where there was more air, and began to remove the worms.

Are you alright?

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, just… difficult to hear, you know.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, I understand. That was when Elias arrived with the fire brigade and doctors and the hazmat people. They talked to me for a long time, and I did my best to explain the situation. They checked me for worm-marks, but I was fine. They took you away, so I waited with Elias. He was looking at me strangely, but we were both quiet. It had been a very strange day.

After an hour or so, we heard cries from the trapdoor. It was Martin. He was shouting about a body. We got him out, and Elias tried to get him to calm down and explain. He said he’d found the body of the previous Archivist, Gertrude Robinson, and that was when Elias called the police. I tried to calm him down, but he was in bad shape. The police arrived, and I gave them pretty much this same statements.

ARCHIVIST
Right… Right. What about the tape? You had the tape recorder, the one I’d just recorded Mr. Ramao’s statement on, but when you gave it back, it was empty.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, I dropped it a few times. The eject button must have been hit. I didn’t notice until you pointed it out. It’s probably around somewhere. Is it that important?

ARCHIVIST
It’s important to me. Are you feeling alright? You seem a bit out of it.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, I’m very tired. It’s hard to keep track of things sometimes.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Go get some rest, Sasha.

NOT!SASHA
Yes. I will.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
[Tired] I mean, I already told the police.

ARCHIVIST
Well, now tell me. I need to hear it. I need to record it.

MARTIN
I… alright. Are you okay?

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Painkillers are starting to wear off, but… It’s fine. Statement of Martin Blackwood, archival assistant, etcetera, etcetera. Go.

MARTIN
Right. Well, I was doing some background checks for case 0081709, when you and Sasha started screaming, so I went to ch-

ARCHIVIST
Yes, yes, I was there! I was with you for almost the whole time, and that tape survived just fine.

MARTIN
Sorry.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, it’s fine. I just… I only need from when you got separated. From when you got lost in the tunnels.

MARTIN
No, I mean… I’m sorry I left you.

ARCHIVIST
…

Oh, Martin.

MARTIN
[Tearful] It was an accident. I thought you two were with me! I mean, the worms came at us, and they were so much faster, and then there was the gas, and the running, and I just… I, I thought you were right behind me. But when I turned round you were gone. You were both gone. It was an accident.

ARCHIVIST
I know. It’s fine, Martin. Everybody’s… [sigh] Everyone’s fine… I just need you to tell me what happened next, and then it’s finished.

MARTIN
Alright. So, um, yeah, we got separated so I, I tried shouting, but you didn’t answer. The walls seemed to kill the sound dead and there wasn’t any echo. They were old stone, like, really old, and there was no light except my torch. I, I always keep my torch on me, ever since I moved into the Archives, so I had that, at least.

I wandered for a while. It’s a, it’s a maze down there, John. I don’t know how far the passages go. Maybe miles. I think it must be the old Millbank Prison, like Tim was saying before. I even found some stairs at one point, but I really didn’t want to go down them.

I hadn’t seen any worms for a few minutes, and weirdly enough that actually started to worry me, like, if there weren’t any worms then I’d gone too far from the Institute. And there was more dust in those corridors too, and dead rats, even some discarded wine bottles. At one point there was an empty packet of mint imperials-

ARCHIVIST
Martin…

MARTIN
Sorry. Yeah. Um. I was trying to go back, not that I knew what back even meant down there, when I heard the scream. I don’t even know how to go about describing it, but I thought… well I hoped… Well, when I started to find the shrivelled bodies of worms all over the place, I knew she was dead.

So I wanted to get out of there. I was looking for a way up, but it felt more and more like I was trapped. Every turn just led me to another empty corridor. When I finally found a door, I thought it might actually get out, but instead…

It was a small room. Square. There was dust on everything. Cardboard boxes were piled around. They were full of old cassette tapes.

ARCHIVIST
That’s where you found her?

MARTIN
Yes. She was sat in a wooden chair in the middle of the room. No worms. No cobwebs. Just… an old corpse. Gertrude Robinson. She was slumped forward, but I could see her mouth hanging open. So I ran, and I found the trapdoor soon afterwards.

ARCHIVIST
Could you find the room again?

MARTIN
I don’t know. Maybe. The police certainly expect me to, although I got the feeling they’re not too keen to explore the tunnels either.

ARCHIVIST
Martin, how did Gertrude Robinson die?

MARTIN
I don’t know. Not for sure. It was so dark, and I only saw the body for a few seconds. The police were quite clear that the cause of death could be absolutely any-

ARCHIVIST
MARTIN! How did she die?

MARTIN
She was shot! Three times, that I could see. Three shots to the chest.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Right. Thank you Martin.

MARTIN
…

Sure.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Gertrude Robinson, the last Archivist at the Magnus Institute, and my predecessor, was murdered. There were no worms to infest her, no strange, ghostly apparitions to warp her mind, or caves to entomb her. She was killed, in the Archives, by someone who used a gun, and that scares me far more than any spectre or twisted creature. Because that means someone here is a killer.

The police will investigate thoroughly, I have no doubt, but… given their track record in this matter I am not optimistic.

There is something in these files, in these statements. I know that now, some deeper mystery. I think Gertrude Robinson found it, and I think that is why they killed her.

Some of my tapes are missing. Maybe it was Prentiss, but she seemed more interested in the written files, and the other tapes seem fine. There’s no sign of debris, or anything that would indicate they’ve been destroyed, but, in addition to the tape Sasha lost earlier, the tapes for cases 0051701 and 0160204 are gone. I don’t know why these two specifically, but I cannot trust anyone.

I’m going to figure this out, and I’m not going to stop. They’ll have to kill me first.

End recording.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, regarding exploration of the tunnels recently discovered below the archive. Statement given direct, 2nd September, 2016. Statement, uh… Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’ve been going into the tunnels. It’s…. There are, uh… Jane Prentiss is dead. I know this. I have a small jar on my desk of what are supposed to be her ashes, though I don’t believe it for a second. I think Martin just gave me a jar of dust to try and calm me down. Give me something to focus on for closure. I hate to say it, but it does appear to be working. A victory for the placebo effect, it would seem. But that’s beside the point. The worms have been cleared and incinerated, the floors and walls repaired, and the archive looks remarkably like it was never attacked at all.

Unlike me. I’ve healed enough in the last month to return to work, but I’m told it’s unlikely the scars will ever truly fade. Tim is still signed off. Truth be told, I could have stayed away longer, probably should have, but I don’t think the boredom was good for me. I tried to come back earlier, but Martin wouldn’t hear of it. Almost threw me out of the archive. Is he hiding something? Heh. No, of course not. He’s probably just legitimately concerned for my health.

Why do I still feel like I’m being watched? I’d just about convinced myself it was Prentiss, watching me in secret while she filled the walls with her writhing hordes, but no. She is dead and gone, and still whenever I talk into this… damn thing, I feel this… I’m being watched. I know I am. I’d think it was some aspect of the recorder itself, but it still happens even when I’m just reading these files. Not as strongly as when I’m… recording them, perhaps, but still there. Is it…

Huh. You know, I always despised those witnesses who rambled on, unable to stay on topic, couldn’t give as concise a statement. Yet here I am, mumbling my vague suspicions of being watched, and completely ignoring the reason I’m making a statement of my own.

I have been exploring the tunnels.

It’s been a couple of weeks now. From before I was officially back. If you listen to this, Martin, I am sorry. I’ve gone behind your back to explore the tunnels on… several occasions. I took the key from Elias’ desk some time ago. I don’t think he noticed. Since Martin stopped living in the Archives, I’ve had ample opportunities for exploration by night. Part of me still wonders if going down there after dark was more dangerous, but the pitch black of those tunnels would be no different in the daytime. The only light down there is what you bring yourself.

The first time I attempted to explore them, I had no idea. I brought one torch and that was it. The lights in the archive were off when I arrived at the Institute. I hadn’t been down here since just it was full of worm carcasses. I’d never explored down here by torchlight, and the shadows were… starker than I had anticipated. Every time I walked between the shelves, I swear I would see movement out the corner of my eye. But when I turned, there was nothing. Obviously there was nothing. Then I came to the trapdoor.

If Sasha hadn’t thought to clearly mark it with hazard tape, I’m not sure I would ever have found it again, but there it was. It took several minutes of fumbling before I was able to figure out how to lift the concealed handle and expose the lock, but I managed it. The key turned with a click that I found oddly satisfying, and I pulled it open. When I had thought about that moment before, I had always imagined it groaning open with a tortured, ominous creak, but it was almost silent. It glided open as though on freshly oiled hinges, with only the faintest puff of stagnant air being released from beneath it.

The opening was utterly black, with the faintest hint of decay in the cold, clammy air that rushed out of it. The stairs down it were steep, far steeper than I remembered them from when I had first climbed out, but those memories are… unreliable, and tinged with other, more potent, experiences. I turned the torch on, and was pleased by how easily it penetrated the darkness, illuminating the rough, grey stone below. I was expecting my torch to be met by hundreds of decaying worm husks, but the passage seemed to be empty. I headed down into the tunnel, closing the trapdoor behind me.

It is hard to put into words how it felt to be down there, in the cool, mouldering air of the tunnels. Have you ever left a crowded room, and literally felt the silence as you walked out into the night? It was something like that, a sudden, quiet absence. Not in itself a fearful thing, but unsettling in a way I hadn’t noticed through the fear and adrenaline of my first time in the tunnels. I took a moment to examine the feeling, but couldn’t trace it anything obvious, so I began to explore.

It was almost unreal how quickly I became lost. I generally consider myself to have an excellent sense of direction, but within minutes I became unsure of exactly which passages I had come from. I didn’t even have the excuse of the corridors all looking the same, as they varied significantly in height and construction. Some were built of sturdy brick, some seemed almost as though they had formed naturally, though in all cases it was the same dull, grey stone.

To call it a maze wouldn’t quite be accurate, as a maze is designed. It is set out with an obvious goal, even if that goal is to confuse and disorientate. This place, it felt more organic in its unpredictability, as though it had been intended to be used, to be travelled, but had gotten twisted somehow.

I found spaces that seemed intended as rooms, but without doors. Elsewhere, there were doors that seemed simply attached to the walls. Most of these were firmly shut, though some opened to reveal the flat grey stone behind. Only a handful I opened had actual rooms behind them, and in every case, I found myself wondering whether that was where Martin had found her.

There was no way to tell. Even when the police finally found Gertrude’s body, they took it, chair and all, as well as all the tapes. Evidence, they said, and they might be right, though I don’t envy them the task of going through all of them. There must have been hundreds.

No. I suppose in some way I do envy them. They are an insight into my predecessor’s time here; something I desperately wannt to know more about. Whatever’s on them, it must be important, because… either she chose to hide them down here, or whoever killed her did. Either way, I have a feeling it isn’t something the police are going to understand. I half-hoped to stumble across a lone cassette lying in one of the corridors, dropped or overlooked, but there was nothing. Just dark and empty tunnels, silent and unwelcoming.

I foolishly didn’t think to make a note of the time I entered the tunnels, so it was hard to say how long I had been down there, or how far I had gone, when I found the first of the worms, but it can’t have been more than a half hour. They were long dead by then. Shrivelled, stringy things, like discarded sausage casing, and it was odd to see how clear a line there was between the wormless tunnels and those where they still lay rotting. A clear line beyond which the cleaning crews had decided not to advance. When I crossed that line, I half-expected the corpses to spring to life, turning their squirming heads towards me with a predatory lunge, but they were still.

Nonetheless, I went slower through those deeper passages, picking my footing carefully so as not to touch them. The air was colder here, suffused with the faint tang of rot, and I began to wonder how much battery I had in my torch. I had put a fresh one in before my expedition, I’m not stupid, but the more I thought about it, the more I realised that I don’t actually know how long batteries last for continuous use in a heavy-duty torch.

I hadn’t even been down there an hour, but already it felt like the light it cast was weaker, somehow, and I realised how unsure I was of my exact route back. I decided I would rather cut my first trip unnecessarily short than risk being trapped down there without light. So I turned back.

It was almost impossible to retrace my steps. I tried to remember my route using what vague oddities I could remember as landmarks: a burned door, a particularly warped corridor. But trying to find them again was useless in the winding passages. In my increasing panic to find the way out, I almost forgot the things I had originally gone down there to look for. Then I found the circle of worms.

When Tim had first described it, I had only half-believed him. I’m sorry, Tim, if you’re listening, but the CO2 had done some strange things to you at that point. He had the right of it, though. By the time I found it, there was little left but a thick carpet of dead worms, but a few were still embedded in the wall providing the clear outline of a circle. The ceiling was higher here, and all told it must have been about… ten feet in diameter.

Its size was not the most disconcerting thing, though. Inside the circle, the stone was… wrong somehow. Solid, but oddly wavy, like chocolate that’s melted and then rehardened. It took me a minute or two to work up the courage to wade through that shallow sea of filth, but I did, and when I touched the warped wall, it felt soft and porous. But stable. I turned and left, but not before noting that another path also appeared to have been pushed through the worms on the floor, though when it had happened or who had made it I couldn’t say.

It took me almost another hour to find the trapdoor again. My torch showed no signs of giving up, but I was still on the verge of panic. My hands were so slick with sweat that I fumbled several times with the handle before finally pushing it open bodily, and falling through onto the floor of the Archives. It was about three in the morning by that time. I had managed to reopen a few of my partially healed wounds, so I headed home to rest.

It turned out the trip had taken far more out of me than I thought; it was almost a week before I felt like I might be up for another excursion. This time, however, I decided that I was not going to take any chances: I packed three torches, with enough replacement batteries to last for days, food and water, in case I was down there longer than expected, a box of white chalk to clearly mark my way, and the largest knife I was able to buy at short notice.

The first time down there I had, on more than one occasion, been almost certain that I could hear sounds of movement from further into the tunnels. At the time I had convinced myself it was simply a combination of echo and my mind playing on my fears, but on the chance there was something down there…

Well, I had my doubts how effective a knife would be, but it certainly eased my mind. Beyond that, I made sure to take one of the smaller CO2 fire extinguishers from the Archives. I was determined that any surviving worms would not be so for long.

Again, I waited until nightfall before letting myself into the Archives, and heading down into the tunnels below. Almost as soon as I got down there I started marking the walls and intersections with white, chalk arrows. They pointed the direction I had come from, the direction I’d need to follow when I wanted to leave. If there was anything down here and I had to flee, then I reasoned all I would need to do was follow the chalk arrows back to the entrance.

For a while this worked. Once or twice I discovered I had inadvertently made a loop or gotten turned around and was facing one of my earlier arrows, but it was a relatively simple matter to correct it. I also set up my watch so I had a clear idea of how long I had been down there. After a half hour I had gotten far deeper than I had in my entire first expedition, and gotten past the empty area, into the tunnels still lined with dead worms, and then beyond them, to those tunnels wholly empty and, apparently, undisturbed since the days of Millbank Prison.

I had done what research I could on Millbank. First proposed and designed in 1799 by Jeremy Bentham, a philosopher who wished to test his theories of the panopticon prison, where cells would be arranged in a circle around a single, central, guard tower, so all cells were observable at once. It was to have six such areas, arranged in hexagons, giving it from the air the shape of a vast, angular flower.

It’s not clear why that original plan was abandoned, but from 1812 onwards, a succession of other architects were brought in to try and finish the project. Finally, three years later, they brought in Robert Smirke. He saw the project to completion in 1821, with a design remarkably similar to Bentham’s original. However, whereas Bentham’s would have been geometric, and easy to navigate, Millbank Penitentiary as it was built was more often described as an eccentric maze: twisting corridors, doors at strange angles, and narrow passages so poorly lit inmates would need to feel their way along.

Throughout much of the 19th century, it was where prisoners were kept before transportation to Australia, and the brutality of the jailors was said to be second to none. Its position on what was then marshlands hardly helped, with sickness and disease rife within their walls.

It was a huge complex, covering much of what we now call Chelsea, but when it was finally closed in 1890, it was demolished. Flattened. Which meant that what I was in now couldn’t be the old prison itself. It had to be something built below it. And it was this that gave me such pause when I found the first set of steps leading even further down.

They were stone, spiralling into the darkness at an angle so steep it made my legs weaken slightly. The steps led higher as well, but after a few metres disappeared into the solid stone of the ceiling. I made a note of their location and carried on, keen to explore as much of the first level as possible before going any deeper.

It was becoming very apparent that these tunnels must have covered the entire area of Millbank, or even further, and there was every possibility they continued for miles. I had seen little down there of note thus far, something I will admit gave me a pang of both disappointment and relief, and took a short break to drink some water and compose myself.

It was shortly after this I found the next staircase. It was identical to the first in material, in construction and look. It was the same in all but one detail: the large chalk arrow pointing downwards. I’m sure I don’t need to say that I had not drawn it. My own arrows were jagged, workmanlike things. This was curled and neat, pointing the way with a flourish.

That was when I heard the noises again. They could have been footsteps, I suppose, but if so they were soft, quiet. Was someone running around those tunnels barefoot? I froze in place and listened, but the noises did not return, and I gripped my knife.

I am not a brave man. I believe I am starting to come to terms with that fact, but I am, in certain circumstances, a very stubborn one. And there was something inside me that made the decision that I would rather die at the hands of some tunnel-dwelling beast than work above without knowing what it was. Maybe I’d be lucky, and find a crazed gun-wielding madman, a convenient killer for Gertrude.

I can almost hear my assistants chiding me for not turning tail and running then and there, but it’s hard to fully explain the borderline mania that gripped me when I saw that arrow. Mocking and inviting all at one. I was not so foolish as to run down the stairs, but I descended them quicker that was safe. Down and down and down they went, each rotation revealing more tunnels and doors, but I saw no sign of reaching the bottom. I had gone down about four levels when my torch caught what I thought was movement in the corridors beyond.

I left the stairs in pursuit, but was unable to find any sign of life. Or death, I suppose. Only an empty wine bottle, the label all but rotted away, but the year was still legible as 2003. The passages here were more pronounced in their difference than the ones further up, some being so irregular and seamless as to almost seem organic, while others were almost unnervingly square and regular, with sharp angles and precisely laid bricks.

It was in one of these that it happened. I had continued to mark my route with chalk, and was scratching an arrow into a particularly flat wall, when I looked up to see the turning ahead of me was no longer there. Instead, there was simply a dead end. I could find no sign that there had been any movement, nor had I heard anything.

I turned back, and immediately noticed that the wall opposite me was closer than it had been before. I took a step back in shock, and my feet hit the wall behind me. The passage was getting narrower, though I could not see any movement. I stood completely still and for several seconds there was silence. Then, from somewhere in the darkness, I heard a single word, clear as day: “Leave.”

It was spoken simply, without intonation or threat. Just a command.

So I did. I began to shuffle back as quickly as possible the way I had come, keeping my eyes open as long as I could, as every time I closed them the wall seemed to get even closer. By the time I reached the stairs back up, it had almost pinned me. I fled back up the stairs, followed the arrows I had left back to the trapdoor. It took me barely ten minutes, but I was moving faster than I would have thought possible in those… cramped tunnels. I locked the trapdoor behind me, and placed the heaviest objects I could find on it.

I have not been below the Institute since then. It took no small amount of consideration to decide I should officially make a statement. I did not think to bring the tape recorder with me. I suppose I’ve gotten out of the habit during my recuperation.

I am no closer to determining what is lurking down there than I was when I started. If anything I have more questions. Why point me downwards, only to then demand I run back? Was it some sort of trap? A test? I don’t know, but right now, finding whatever secrets might be lurking in those tunnels is my primary concern.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Supplemental.

I don’t care about the tunnels, or the secrets they might hide.

That’s not strictly true, I suppose. I do have a burning curiosity as to what is down there, but my primary focus must be on who killed Gertrude Robinson, and I do not believe for a moment that it was a wall-moving spectre from the depths of the earth. No, far more likely it’s one of my colleagues. Elias is a prime suspect, but it could have been any of them.

I have told Martin the second tape recorder was lost in the attack. Having two means I can make two tapes from each recording. One containing the main statement and notes, which will be stored in the archive, and the other containing the statement, notes, and… this supplement, which will chronicle my own investigations. These tapes will be hidden. If you’re hearing this, I assume you’re my replacement, following my death or disappearance, and have received instructions on where to find them.

I have little more to add to this initial account, as I have only recently returned to my position in full, and haven’t had time to begin personal investigations. My statement was, of course, completely true, though I have deliberately overstated my interest in the tunnels. If my colleagues believe that to be my main focus, they may let their guard down. This level of paranoia is new to me, but I’m learning fast. Trust can get you killed.

End supplement.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jennifer Ling, regarding a live musical performance she attended in Soho. Original statement given November 3rd, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Anyone who’s written about music long enough has at least heard of Grifter’s Bone. An urban legend, I guess you could call it. Not quite a ghost story, not quite a joke, not quite a real thing. Sometimes they’re a band, sometime it’s just the one guy. If the story has them as a band, then the only one whose name the old timer knows - because it’s always the old timers telling these stories - is a guy named Alfred Grifter. Some will swear blind it’s his real name, others will just give you a knowing look and ask if it sounds real. Fact is, no-one knows a damn thing about him except the name he goes by, so it’s all just story and gossip, but there’s still plenty to go around.

Story goes of a mediocre musician with a hunger for more, who turns to the dark arts, usually devil worship or witchcraft, but gets it wrong. I’ve heard it told as a curse, a badly worded wish or even a devil that just gets mad at being summoned and beats him ‘til his hands don’t work. The end is always the same, though: his music is so grating, so gut-churningly awful, that he, or sometimes his band, have to sneak into gigs to play unannounced to any audience they can find. And the music is dreadful, a grim cacophony of discord and noise, too much to bear. You can always tell when Grifter’s Bone has been on, they’ll tell you, because of all the torn-off ears. They’re not entirely wrong.

I’ve been writing for Earful for a while. Used to just be me, firing my music thoughts onto a blog, but a few years back my then-friend, now-boss Tommy Moncreef said he was starting up a music site, and would I write for it? I said of course I would, and now here I am running video content for it. Earful.com’s only been around three years or so, but to be honest in the world of music sites, that gives us a pretty decent pedigree. Tommy’s from the old school - used to write for dozens of music magazines, back in the dead tree days, before print became an embarrassing older relative that just wouldn’t die. Point is, he knew a lot of older contacts and writers, most of which he brought on board for Earful. That means I was quickly brought up to speed on decades worth of London music scene gossip by middle-aged white men who only ever wore T-shirts for bands that ended tragically. And that’s when I started to hear about Grifter’s Bone.

Whenever someone was listening to some sub-par submission, or even just some music of their own that wasn’t well regarded, one of the old timers, usually Mike Baker, would shout over, “I see you got the new Grifter’s Bone album!” or “I didn’t know Grifter’s Bone reformed!” or something like that. It was annoying as hell, but I never really brought it up. And after hearing every possible variation of the story from a half-dozen drunken writers at our Christmas do, I just kind of decided to let it go.

I didn’t think much more about it until earlier this year. There’s a guy who works for Earful by the name of Lee Kipple. His official title is ‘Submissions Editor’, though we call it something a little more vulgar, and it’s his job to listen through all the music we’re sent unsolicited. CDs, MP3s; recently there’s even been a weird fad for sending in music on novelty USB drives. He listens to all of it. As you can imagine, most of it’s awful. Still, Lee is pretty much the nicest guy I’ve ever met, and I don’t think I’ve ever once heard him complain. He’s tall, a bit lanky, with long blond hair that covers his ears. And his eyes if he’s not careful.

Because of his job, Lee obviously gets a lot of comments about listening to crappy music, and if it’s one of the older folk you can bet they’ll mention Grifter’s Bone. It took me a while to notice how weird his reaction was when this happened. Whereas most of the staff would fake laugh, sigh or maybe swear a little, Lee would go very still. He’d nod gently, and reach up to scratch his ears, still mostly covered by hair. No-one seemed to notice.

I kept watching him, and the pattern repeated whenever the band was mentioned. I don’t know when I decided that he must have seen Grifter’s Bone perform live, but I did. And more than that, I decided he must have fake ears, having torn his own off when he saw the show, and that’s why he wore his hair so long to cover them. I didn’t really believe it, obviously. It was just a fun little theory I liked to play around with. But the more I watched Lee, the more it seemed that he did deliberately try to keep his ears covered.

Finally, about a month ago, I decided to just ask him. We’d all gone out for drinks, and I’ll admit I may have had a few more vodka tonics than would have been wise, but when the others had headed home and it was just Lee left, I decided now was the time. I asked him if they were as bad as everyone said. He looked puzzled, and I leaned in closer. “Grifter’s Bone”, I said. He froze, completely still. I waited for him to touch his ears, but instead he just stared at me, unmoving. He began to stutter something about not knowing what I was talking about, but I cut him off. It was written all over his panicked face; he had seen them.

I watched as he decided whether or not to try and run. There was a moment I was sure he was going to literally bolt for the door, but instead he sighed and nodded his head. It was four years ago, he told me, at The Good Ship in Kilburn. Lee had been watching an up-and-coming metal band whose name he could no longer recall - they’d been fine, a bit disappointing, so he was in a mood to finish his drink and leave. The rest of the audience seemed to be of a similar mind, so nobody noticed when a man climbed onto the stage, and set up a small keyboard.

The man was short, so Lee said, and painfully thin, wearing a ratty, old brown suit that draped around him like, in Lee’s words, “flaps of ill-fitting skin”. His thinning black hair was slicked back, and his face had a strange look of cruelty to it. As he placed his fingers on his instrument, they left behind dark red spots on the bright white keys. Lee said he had never heard of Grifter’s Bone before that moment, but somehow he knew that’s what he was looking at. And then the music started.

After he said this, Lee went very quiet. It was clear he was concentrating very hard. I waited, not wanting to interrupt, but in the end he just shook his head. He couldn’t remember the music, he said. He’d tried, but it was just blank. He’d come back to himself wandering the streets of Kilburn almost two hours later, his shirt soaked in blood. Mostly his blood. At this, Lee unbuttoned his shirt and showed me a series of vivid scars slashed onto his chest. The hospital had said it was likely a box cutter of some sort, but he had no memory of it.

By then it looked like he was on the verge of tears, but I couldn’t leave it alone. I asked about his ears. He actually laughed at this and said no, he hadn’t torn them off. Reaching up, Lee pulled back his long, blond hair to reveal an ear that, at first glance, appeared normal. Looking closer, though, I saw that he was wearing earplugs, flesh-coloured, so as not to be obvious, and caked around the edges of them was a ring of dried blood. He said it was the only way he’d found to stop it dripping down and ruining his shirts.

I was a bit freaked out at this. Understandably, I think, though it was entirely my own fault, and I had told him he needed to see a doctor if his ears wouldn’t stop bleeding. Lee just shook his head, said he’d seen enough doctors to know they couldn’t help, and that he had learned to cope with it. We drank the rest of the night in silence, before heading our separate ways.

I know I should have left it alone after that, and I certainly didn’t bother Lee again. But I found I, I just couldn’t let it go. Either Lee was mad, or Grifter’s Bone was real. I started doing research online. There were a few sites that referenced it as an urban legend. There was a punk duo in Oregon who proudly announced that they had named themselves Grifter’s Bone after what they described as “Britain’s musical Jack the Ripper”. There were a lot of posts on music forums from newbies to the scene asking what Grifter’s Bone was. But nowhere had anything even remotely like Lee’s story.

Finally, having kinda run out of steam, I threw my findings together into a short feature article, and sent it to Tommy, who dutifully approved it. I figured I’d wasted enough time on the subject that I could at least put it towards something decent for the site. It did alright, though it wasn’t enough of a hit to justify the time spent on it. Lee didn’t mention it when we next talked - I had asked if I could write up his experience after thoroughly anonymising it, and he’d shrugged and said fine. All in all, it felt like whatever it was that had hooked me, it was over, and I wasn’t too broken up about it.

Then someone left a comment on my article. It just read, “Tonight. Soho.” I wouldn’t have paid it any attention if it hadn’t been for the second line: “No earplugs required”. Lee’s earplugs, and the reason behind them, had been the only thing he requested I leave out of the article. I mentioned it to Tommy, and he just said something about time-wasters, and how I had better things to do than spend an evening wandering around Soho, randomly walking into music venues.

It probably says something really depressing about my personal life that, actually, I didn’t have anything better to do. So that afternoon I was doing exactly that. Wandering around the streets of Soho, making a note of all the performers listed as playing that night. As expected, none of them listed Grifter’s Bone as playing, but I made a note of them anyway. It wasn’t that late, but it was already dark, the world illuminated by the colourful glow of the Soho signs and shop fronts. The wind was slow in the narrow streets, but still cut through my thin, woollen coat as I wandered, looking for a small, cruel-looking man in a ragged brown suit.

I’d kept my watch maybe an hour when I saw someone staring at me from the doorway of a small shop. The sign above didn’t have an obvious name, simply reading “Crystals. Books. Tarot”. He was tall, black and careworn, deep lines of worry etched into an otherwise handsome face. When he saw me looking at him, he began to walk up to me, still with that intense look. I took a couple of steps back, and asked if I could help him. He shook his head as if unsure what to say, then asked me what I was listening to. A chill ran over me as I realised he was staring at my ears.

I said I wasn’t listening to anything, as I wasn’t wearing headphones, and asked him what he wanted. He shook his head again, and mumbled something about protecting my hearing. He turned away then, and started walking back into the shop. I was about to follow him when I saw a small group of people turning the corner.

Their features were hard to be sure of in the dark, but walking at the front, dragging a rolling keyboard case, was a short, thin man in an oversized brown suit. The three figures behind him were all much taller than him, but each was stick thin, and moved with a jerkiness to their motions. I looked back to where the strange, staring man had been, but he had retreated inside his shop, and the lights were now off, so I began to follow the man I thought to be Alfred Grifter, as he and his companions moved down the street. The others all carried instrument cases as well, and no one else on the street seemed to pay them any notice at all, not even when the tallest physically shoved a man out of his path.

Finally, they turned down a flight of stairs, into a basement jazz bar I didn’t recognise. After a few seconds I followed them. The bar was dimly lit and quiet, with red and orange lights giving it a warm, smoky feel. Patrons stood around drinking and chatting. I counted eleven in total. I remember I made a note of the number because of how empty the place was. Most seemed to be dressed for an evening of jazz, but I noticed a few of them seemed to be wearing thick coats or jackets, and one, an older white man with a shock of silver hair, appeared to be wearing a silk bathrobe. Behind them, on the stage, Grifter’s Bone were setting up their instruments.

Now, despite everything that happened thus far appearing to show the contrary, I am not an idiot. I remembered Lee’s story very clearly indeed, and had no intention of staying for the show. Instead, I took out my phone, set it recording video, and placed it in a small alcove near the entrance with a good view of the stage. I checked to make sure the microphone was working, and then I left. I stood at the top of the stairs into that dingy jazz club and I waited.

After a few minutes of shivering in the cold, I thought I had made a mistake. The streets were deserted, and the previously mild November night had taken on a bone-deep chill. Then I heard it. Muffled through the walls, but still rising distinctly to where I stood, a note. A single, clear note, from what sounded like a cello. It was joined by others, a keyboard, a guitar, and over them all the pure piping sound of a flute. It was beautiful. It was some of the most achingly beautiful music I had ever heard. Then the screams began.

There was no build-up to the screams; no lead-up to explain the sudden eruption of sounds of agony. There were crashes as well, noises of impact and, once or twice, something that sounded like tearing. Through it all, in the background, played that beautiful music. I stood there, frozen in place, not wanting to go down there, but not feeling able to flee, as below all I could hear was haunting music and butchery.

I went to pull out my mobile to phone the police, but I realised I had left it down there, recording in the jazz club. I finally made the decision to run for help, when the noises ceased abruptly, and there was silence. I looked around for anyone who might have heard the cries of pain and panic, and be coming to help, but there was no-one. Just me. I began to slowly, carefully, make my way down towards the basement. If whoever was down there wanted to kill me, I would be easy enough to find with the information on my phone. One way or another, I was at their mercy.

When I opened the door, it was hard to know exactly what I was looking at. In the dull red light, the torn and mangled remains of the people I had seen alive not half an hour ago were almost indistinguishable from the carpet and furnishings. On stage, the musicians calmly packed away their instruments. They did not have a spot of blood on them. The one in the brown suit, who I assumed to be Alfred Grifter, looked up. He gazed straight into my eyes and said, “Encore?” I grabbed my phone and ran.

I didn’t phone the police. I was too scared of what might happen. I watched the news obsessively, waiting to see anything on the massacre, but there was nothing. It’s been almost a week now, and I’ve heard nothing. I haven’t been able to access the footage from that night. My phone says it’s incorrectly formatted somehow, but I’ll keep trying. I did go back to the jazz club, but I can find no sign of violence, no sign of Grifter’s Bone, and no sign of the eleven people who died that night.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Our own investigations into the band “Grifter’s Bone” yielded little that Ms. Ling did not include in her own, remarkably comprehensive article “Spooks and solos: the slim pickings of Grifter’s Bone”. Certainly her statement appears to be easily the most detailed account of any encounter with the band, assuming it is to be trusted. The Dean Street Jazz Club strenuously denies any violence took place on its premises during the dates in question, and there are no police reports that seem to match up with Ms. Ling’s description.

Well, I suppose that’s not quite true. According to police reports, in the month of October 2013, there were a total of eleven deaths by violence in the Greater London area. It’s impossible to match the details of all of them based on the information in Ms. Ling’s statement, but one of the victims, Mr. Albert Sands, 67 years old, and beaten to death in his own home. Although it happened two weeks before the events of this statement, according to the police he was wearing a silk dressing gown when he was brutally murdered.

We are unfortunately unable to follow up with Ms. Ling; it seems roughly two weeks after giving this statement she assaulted Agatha Norrell, her elderly neighbour, with a claw hammer. Ms. Norrell was left in a coma from which she did not recover, while Ms. Ling turned the hammer upon herself. By the time the police arrived, she had done so much damage to her head that… there was no hope of saving her. I have an uncomfortable feeling she might have finally gotten that video to work.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplement. I’ve been watching Martin. He’s been very attentive to my needs and recovery since I returned to work, almost to the exclusion of his own tasks. Previously I might have ascribed such ministrations to his own lax work ethic, but in the stress of Prentiss’ attack, I am sure I glanced moments of competence, or even cunning, that are beyond what his previous work would indicate. Is he playing the fool? Purposefully failing in his tasks to delay or hinder my investigations? It’s possible. He has also shown remarkable interest in my own theories as to who killed Gertrude. I have thus far diverted him by saying I believe it to be whatever is lurking in the tunnels below, but he seems… unsatisfied by that response.

I’m glad he’s moved out of the Archives, as it gives me a chance to work here without his constant presence. Also because he managed to leave some of his possessions behind, for the most part it’s just a few books of relatively awful poetry. There are a few pieces I feel could almost have been affecting if his style wasn’t so obviously enamoured with Keats, but there is an unfinished letter addressed to his mother in Devon, in which he mentions that he is worried about “the others finding out I’ve been lying”.

It may be nothing, some inconsequential deception or other - after all, it is ostensibly written to his mother - but if it was actually to be sent to someone else… I will keep my eye on Martin.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
BASIRA
I really shouldn’t be talking about it on tape.

ARCHIVIST
That’s entirely up to you. You came to us.

BASIRA
Yeah… Just wanna talk about it with someone, you know?

ARCHIVIST
Very much so.

BASIRA
I’m breaking the law by talking to you. You understand that?

ARCHIVIST
I… think so. Some sort of non-disclosure agreement, I believe?

BASIRA
Pretty much. D-Do you need my real name?

ARCHIVIST
Technically no, but from what I understand of your situation, you’d be rather identifiable even without it. This is not the first time we’ve had statements from witnesses in sensitive positions. I’ll mark the tape and file it for internal use only, which means it comes under the Institute’s own, very strict, NDA policy and cannot be referenced or requested by external agencies or authorities.

Such as the police.

BASIRA
[Pointedly] That’s the best you can offer?

ARCHIVIST
I’m afraid so, though I remind you again you are under no obligation to make a statement if it makes you uncomfortable. Or, if you’re worried about your voice being recognised, you could always write it down. I’ll make an audio copy later.

BASIRA
I’m not really big on writing. I’m more of a talker.

ARCHIVIST
Odd choice of career, then; [attempting levity] I hear there are lots of forms to fill in.

BASIRA
Not much since I became Section 31.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, you mentioned. This Section Thirty– you know what, we will cover it in the statement.

Statement of Police Constable Basira Hussain regarding her time investigating… strange occurrences as part of Section 31. Statement taken direct from subject, September 19th 2016. Statement begins.

BASIRA
…

Now?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

BASIRA
Right, well, first off, I’m not ‘part’ of Section 31. It’s not like a unit or a division within the police force or anything like that. It’s a form you have to sign. Section 31 of the Freedom of Information Act covers exclusions for information pertaining to law enforcement. It just means that any information that could interfere with the prevention or detection of a crime can’t be given out as part of an FOI request. So what happens is, when you stumble across something a bit… weird, then after it’s over you’re taken to one side, and told to sign a form officially declaring what you saw and experienced was directly related to a crime. Then it’s covered by Section 31 and can’t be revealed under the Freedom of Information Act. There’s a whole bunch of other NDA stuff in there as well, but it basically means you have to keep quiet about it.

Thing is, signing your first Section 31 really marks you out. Word spreads fast in a station, and once they see you’ve signed one, people start to push you in that direction. They call you ‘sectioned’, which I guess is kind of appropriate? You’re generally assigned to head out with others who’ve signed, and if any officers get a whiff of something weird from a scene, they’ll wait ‘til you arrive, rather than going in themselves and risk getting sectioned themselves. I suppose in some ways it’s kind of a unit, but not one with any funding or training or official power. Just a bunch of burned out cops with a retirement rate five times the average.

That’s why it took so long to get a car here when your friend found Miss Robinson’s body. I was on a burglary call-out with Carver, the only other sectioned officer on shift, and you can bet no-one else was responding to a call from the Magnus Institute. No offence.

ARCHIVIST
None taken. And full names, please.

BASIRA
What? Oh, PC Richard Carver.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

I did notice you seemed less… taken aback by the large number of shrivelled silver worm corpses than I would have expected.

BASIRA
Yeah. I mean, that was easily one of the most disgusting things I’ve seen on the job, but not the weirdest.

ARCHIVIST
Shall we start at the beginning, then?

BASIRA
Okay, well, the first time I got hit with a Section 31 was five years ago, August 2011. I’d got my badge the year before that, and was still getting used to some of the more stressful bits of the job. The week before this happened, I’d heard an officer get his leg shattered by some arsehole with a cricket bat. We were speeding towards the scene, but couldn’t do anything but listen to it over the radio. That sort of thing it, it does something to your brain; that mix of adrenaline and helplessness, so… so I was still a bit rattled when the call came in.

There was a fire out near Clapham – a residential home had gone up, and the fire brigade were calling for some police back-up. Apparently the homeowner was getting violent, and there were suspicions of arson. I was riding with John Spencer back then. We didn’t really get on – let’s just say I wasn’t a fan of the tone he always used when he said the word “diversity”, though I never had enough to bring any real grievance about it. Even so, he didn’t deserve what happened to him.

So we arrive at the smoking ruin of a house, and the firefighters have got it pretty much locked down, just a lot of smoke and damp rubble, except for where we see a couple of firefighters struggling to keep a guy restrained. He was a Hispanic male, probably mid-to-late 40s, heavy set with a completely shaved head. Another of the firefighters, this one with a fresh black eye, comes over to brief us. Apparently the guy had burst out of the house shortly after they arrived, not a single burn mark on him. The fire brigade had approached to see what help he needed, but instead he just started throwing punches and trying to run.

That was an assault charge, sure, but why the arson? The fireman just sort of nods to him, and I realise for the first time the bald guy’s saying something. Not loud, but intensely. I mean, this was years ago, so I don’t remember exactly what he was saying, but it definitely involved the words “cleansing fire”, “all shall be ash” and the name Asag, which I later learned is some kind ofSumarian demon. So that’s fun. I reckoned suspicion of arson was probably about right, and Spencer agreed.

So he went to arrest the guy, maybe calm him down some, while I got the handcuffs on. There’s still part of me that feels guilty it was that way around. As I was cuffing him, there was this sudden intense pain in my hand. It was just as I touched the metal to close them; it was incredibly hot. I once took a welding class, ages back, just kind of on a whim, and made the mistake of forgetting that just because metal isn’t glowing red doesn’t mean it isn’t scorching hot. It was that same burn, too intense for your mind to process for a second, then all your nerves fire at once.

It hurt, is what I’m saying.

If I hadn’t managed to get the cuffs closed before the pain really hit, I don’t know what would have happened. As it was I ended up with some badly blistered fingers, while in front of me the guy leaned over to Spencer and whispered something right in his ear. I didn’t hear what he said, but Spencer went completely pale. He was shaking slightly as we shoved the guy in the back of the car, and I had to drive us back to the station. He… refused to tell me what the guy had said.

Our arsonist’s name was Diego Molina. He was assistant curator at some Mexican museum, come over with a loan to the Natural History Museum, but they hadn’t heard from him for a few weeks. He didn’t say much in questioning, though his English was clearly fine. Unfortunately, the arson case collapsed pretty quickly, so… we just had to slap him with assault and let him walk with a hefty fine. Spencer didn’t exactly help matters by getting himself suspended. The only thing Diego Molina had on him when we brought him in, was a small book bound in red leather. They caught Spencer in Storage, trying to destroy it with a Zippo lighter. I never saw him again.

They told me he killed himself when he got home. Apparently he’d somehow filled the bath full of boiling water and just… just got in. Official story was he’d somehow done it using a kettle, which… that, that’s just about the weakest cover-up I’ve ever heard.

[HEAVY SIGH]
Anyway, after that happened, and I’d explained my burned fingers, they gave me my very first Section 31.

ARCHIVIST
I see… I-I see. How many, uh, potentially paranormal events do you generally investigate – a-as a police officer?

BASIRA
None. No-one says the P-word. Not ‘paranormal’, not ‘supernatural’, not even ‘spooky’. The words you learn to look out for are “weird”, “odd”, “strange” and if you hear the phrase “I’m not quite sure what I’m looking at”, then yeah, you’re not getting much back-up.

Almost all of them are false alarms. We get called to a lot of bad drug trips, animal attacks and folks with genuine mental health issues. Those are the ones that have the potential to sound weirdest during initial contact. I didn’t get another genuine Section 31 case for… almost three years.

July 18th 2014. I remember because it was the hottest day of the year, and the air con in the car was out, so we were really suffering. It was me and Alice Tonner, who… everyone calls her “Daisy”, but I can never get her to tell me why. Anyway, Daisy was sectioned years before I was even on the force. She’s never been that forthcoming about any of her own experience; takes Section 31 very seriously. The most I could get out of her was that she was originally sectioned for something she referred to as “spider husks”. The way she described it, it sounded like she’d found a bunch of shells, the sort crabs leave behind when they grow, but I could never figure out if it was meant to be the husks of people-sized spiders, or the spider-like husks of people. And Daisy never seemed like she wanted to clarify. I’m sure she mentioned vampires once as well, but… I think she was joking. Probably. Maybe.

Anyway, we were headed towards Kensington. This one had originally been called in for the ambulance, but then neighbours had reported gunshots, and we had a very strange call with the paramedics. They had specifically refused to confirm there was a gun on the scene so we didn’t send an armed unit. They were still on standby, but something in the paramedics’ report made the other responders decide they should wait for us to get there.

The building was pretty run-down for Kensington. Still nicer than my house, but, you know. The paramedics met us at the door and showed us up. The lift was out, so we headed up the stairs. On each floor I saw faces peering out of the cracks in front doors. They must have been the neighbours who heard gunshots. We, we carried on up, [heavy exhalation] until we reached a door that was already open. The lights inside were off; paramedics said they’ve all been smashed. The windows had all been painted over, and it was like a boiler room in there. But, even in the gloom, it was… it was clear there was a lot of blood around. A lot of blood.

We found the ‘victim’ in the living room, sat on a large armchair. His face was a mess. We got a torch on him, and it was clear he’d been shot in the head multiple times at close range. He was male, white, youngish. Age was hard to guess from what was left of his face. His clothes were new, and there were a lot of expensive-looking trinkets about the place. A lot of old-looking domino sets in glass cases.

Daisy spotted the gun lying next to him, and went over to retrieve it while I-I checked the place for any other signs of life. I’d just turned around when I heard Daisy scream. The guy was moving, trying to gurgle something through what was left of his jaw. He was reaching for the gun. Daisy leapt for it, but it was right next to him and she missed. The man who… he should have been a corpse already… raised the gun, and pointed it into this… mass of flesh that was his head. Daisy grabbed the gun before he could pull the trigger again, and managed to wrestle the gun away from him. Then he made a, he made a noise, just… just a really horrible sound. I think he was trying to cry.

The paramedics took him after that. They didn’t really want to, but it was clearly more in their domain than ours. I assume hospitals probably have their own version of a Section 31 those poor idiots had to sign later. Daisy and I told them we’d clear it up on the police side. Just a standard suicide, and the body was taken by the ambulance. It cut down on the forms, and neither of us wanted to sign another goddamn Section 31.

ARCHIVIST
Fascinating. What other cases have fallen under this classification?

BASIRA
Officially, I’ve only had one other, and that was yours.

ARCHIVIST
Officially?

BASIRA
You get a few dozen calls a year from people who have strange experiences, but they don’t have any evidence. I mean, if what they say is true, then it would be a Section 31, but… there’s nothing that can be investigated or proven, so there’s nothing to report. I always feel bad for them; they’re always so sincere, so sure you can help, but unless they can point to the ghost or the spooky clown doll or whatever, there’s not really a lot we can do.

I’ve also been quite lucky, to be honest. I’ve dodged quite a few of the nastier Section 31s over the years. I remember Harry used to get wasted and tell all sorts of grim stories.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, full names, please.

BASIRA
Sorry, Sergeant Harry Altman. Worked with him a few years back, before he retired.

ARCHIVIST
Right. So… just to return to, er, Gertrude’s body. That’s currently considered a para– a weird case?

BASIRA
I mean, we’re investigating it as a murder because that’s what it is, but you guys are basically an automatic Section 31, so I’ve got almost no help on it. Maybe that’s why I wanted to make a statement, you know? I can’t talk to anybody about this stuff, and then I come here, and you’ve got all this… all these people’s experiences listened to and filed away. It’s… I don’t know. I’ve been meaning to come in ever since that callout.

ARCHIVIST
Mm. Yes. S-So um… so no-one is helping you with Gertrude’s case? No oversight?

BASIRA
Not really. I tried making the argument that the murder didn’t seem to connect to any of your ‘paranormal business’, at least not directly, but nope. I’ve got a shot corpse, three boxes of cassettes, and Daisy, who’s CID now, which I suppose means it’s technically her problem, but she’s now the only detective who’s already sectioned so she’s always way too busy. As far as I know, neither of us have even had a chance to actually start listening to the tapes.

ARCHIVIST
Interesting. Uh, listen–

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Obviously further investigation of the police cases to which Ms Hussain refers is out of the question. Ensuring that the breach of non-disclosure and spreading of confidential information remains hidden is our top priority in this instance. Further investigation, however subtle, could put that in significant danger. Beyond that, Ms Hussain did not appear to expect any such investigation. I can’t say I blame her. Much as I value the deductive powers of my team, they are not trained detectives with the force of the Metropolitan Police behind them, so I imagine there would be little more they could unearth. Certainly nothing worth the risk.

If nothing else, it appears we now have a name for our mystery burn victim from Case #0121102. Diego Molina. And I have a suspicion I know where he got that book. It’s a shame he’s dead, of course, but a piece of the puzzle is not something to be ignored.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.I have convinced Basira to give me access to the tapes. It won’t be many or often, as they are currently police evidence and thus hard to subtly remove, and she can’t necessarily guarantee the ones I get will be the most pertinent to the case, but it is still a significant victory. I only ever spoke to Gertrude once or twice during her time as archivist. I-I was very new. I don’t remember what her voice sounded like. Part of me worries about what I might find on these tapes, but a bigger part of me worries I will find nothing. This uncertainty is wearing on me, and I don’t know how much more I can take.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Case 9790302. Yuri Utkin. Incident occurred in the village of Algasovo, central Russia, November 1952. Statement given 2nd of March 1979. Committed to tape 15th of April 1997.

Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
As a child, I always loved the circus. I grew up in the little village of Algasovo, deep in the forest steppes. We were tiny, far below the notice of the district’s райсовет (1), and as such we were quite a poor community, with little hope of being added to the circus routes as anything but a waystation. Every year he would take my brother Ivan and me, and we would make the journey down to Morshansk to see the circus as soon as it arrived.

(1) “RAYSOVET” OR “DISTRICT COUNCIL”
Jugglers, acrobats, wild animals… it took my breath away every time. My favourites were the clowns. Not as you would think of them; I’ve seen what you call clowns in this country, but back then clowns would actually tell jokes, not simply hit each other and fall over. I didn’t always understand the jokes they told, but there was something intoxicating about sitting there, surrounded by people all laughing and cheering. Even if I didn’t always share their amusement, I always shared in their joy.

I never liked the acrobats, though. I would watch them swinging from the top of the tents, leaping between the trapeze or walking their tightropes, and my chest would tighten, and all I could see in my mind would be the image of them falling to the sand-covered floor. I’ve never been afraid of heights myself, you understand; I used to spend half my summers at the top of the tallest trees I could find. When I was six, my best friend Piotr fell when we were climbing together. He survived, but broke his leg so badly that he still walks with a limp today. From that moment, that long terrible moment when I watched him fall, whenever I would watch the acrobats fly through the air it was all I could do not to close my eyes. Still, that doesn’t change the fact that my visit to the circus in Morshansk remains some of the happiest memories I have of my childhood.

One day in early November, the circus came to Algasovo. To say this was strange is to put it very mildly. As I’ve said, we were a small village, and far below the notice of the troupes that travelled the region. More than that, winter was beginning to set in, and it should have been many months before the touring season began again.

Then, as now, all circuses were owned and run by the government, something that is taken very seriously, so the idea that it might be an independent company that had simply found itself in Algasovo was unthinkable. There were always rumours of vagrants or travellers who would set up their own shows, but these would be small things, always half-ready to move on if someone reported them to the local сельсовет (2). This circus was huge, easily as big as the ones I would see at Morshansk. The trucks rolled through the village shortly before dawn, and by the evening there it stood in the field to the east of town. Over the entrance stood a brightly painted wooden sign that read “Другой Цирк” (3), “Another Circus”.

(2) “SELSOVET” OR “VILLAGE COUNCIL”
(3) “DRUGOY TSIRK”
I begged my father to go. He was weary, but it became clear that almost everyone in the village was planning to visit, even if only so they knew what to report to the сельсовет later. Soon a mob of us were heading through the icy November evening towards the colourful tents and bright lights. As we approached I heard a shrill, piping sound. I’d never before heard a steam organ - they had not been used in the other circuses I had visited, and I found the noise invigorating. There was something in its shriek that thrilled me, though it was the last time I would able to hear such a sound without being filled with the deepest dread.

There was no fence around the outside, but instead the gate stood alone before the circus, with the name illuminated by gaslights either side. It was not a surprise that such a place would not have electricity like the ones in Morshansk, but still it seemed as though the flickering shadows cast by those lamps were starker than I was used to. Next to the gate stood a short woman in a leotard, seemingly oblivious to the cold. As the group of us approached, she began to wave with a slow, languid motion and called over for us to come in. The circus was open, she said, and all were welcome. Her voice was strange. The Russian she spoke was perfect, but her accent, her intonation were all wrong; each time she spoke it was abrupt and repetitive, like a scratched record.

If my father and his friends noticed, they didn’t show any sign of it, though they were suspicious enough already. I didn’t care. I was too excited about the circus. Ivan was even keener than I was, and upon hearing this invitation, he burst out of the crowd and ran eagerly through the gate. And then it was as though some spell were broken, and the wariness seemed to disappear all at once. My father took my hand and led me through under that bright sign, paying the five roubles for entry.

Beyond it there were more gaslights casting their pallid glow on tents and wagons. That whistling steam organ still played, giving the place a feeling of life and energy, while the air was full of sweet smells. From behind the tent came the roar of a big cat, and I let go of my father’s hand as I ran ahead to see. Sure enough, there, sat behind thick iron bars, was the vivid, orange face of a tiger. It regarded me with narrowed eyes, though it remained still. I was entranced. Its fur was shiny and thick, and its mouth curled open to reveal long teeth of brilliant white. I had seen bears and lions before, and once even an elephant, but I’d never seen a real-life tiger before. I leant closer, until all that was between us were six inches and some rusty iron bars.

As I stared at this beautiful creature in front of me, it moved its head. It was the strangest thing to watch. It seemed to shift its position slowly, like a doll having its joints twisted, but its face remained completely still. The mouth stayed curled to reveal its teeth, the ears stayed alert and pointed forward, and the eyes still stared out, though where they had at first seemed brilliant, they now had an almost glassy look to them. Without warning it roared, the same powerful cry of violence that I had heard before, but as it did so I fell back in surprise. The tiger’s mouth had not moved.

As I scrambled back, I felt a large hand on my shoulder, and looked up to see two huge men in overalls. They lifted me easily, so my feet hung almost two feet from the ground. They talked fast, crude Russian, and their words seemed to shift back and forth between them, telling me that behind the tent was off limits, and that I should leave the tiger alone as it wasn’t ready to perform yet. At least, that’s what I thought they’d said at the time. It was only later that it struck me their exact phrase had been that the tiger “wasn’t finished”. They carried me back to my father and placed me down next to him. He thanked them, and asked me if I’d seen my brother.

Ivan had not returned after he ran off through the gate, and my father was growing concerned. He was standing talking to a pale man in a flamboyant red coat, whom I took to be the ringmaster. This brightly-dressed man said there was no reason to be alarmed, that he would ask his people to be on the lookout, and that Ivan would no doubt return when the show was about to start. There was much to explore in the circus, he told my father patiently, and children often let their excitement get the better of them in this strange new place, but they had never lost one yet. This last part he said with a smile that I think was supposed to be reassuring, but reminded me too much of the tiger with its shiny, unmoving teeth.

I left them arguing there and went off to find Ivan. In my ten-year-old’s mind I was sure that I would be able to figure out where my younger brother had wandered to. I would return triumphant, and my father would tell all the village of how well I had done. As I walked, I became fascinated by the flickering gaslights, some clear and bright, others behind coloured glass, and decided that Ivan would also have been drawn to them. So I followed them round the tent, and through the wagons and trucks, until I found myself standing before a smaller tent, set off to the side of the big top. There was another wooden sign across the top. This one appeared to be written in English; I did not then understand what it said. Knowing what I know now, I believe it said, “Freak Show”.

Now you must understand that the freak show was not part of a Soviet circus. Indeed, I believe even in America the practice has been out of fashion for many, many years, so I did not have any idea what to expect when I went in looking for Ivan. What I saw inside is one of the main reasons that I am so sure that my experience deserves to be in your library. It’s the reason I went to Moscow to study medicine, for the people, if such they can be called, that I saw in there were of such grotesque proportion and bodily forms that I became obsessed with learning how it was they might still live.

It was only when I was many years into my medical training that I finally accepted that, scientifically, such things were not possible. A mouth cannot function if it’s located anywhere other than the face. Limbs cannot bend like rubber. A man cannot walk and talk and stare without a head. You will, I hope, forgive my lack of precise descriptions. It has been 27 years since that night, and I can no longer clearly distinguish between what is memory and what is nightmare.

I walked along the row of cages. Those few other patrons who had found their way to this tent turned around quickly, leaving with pale faces and shaking legs, but I was determined to find Ivan. I closed my eyes as I walked, opening them only momentarily every few steps to check if he was there. I called out, but there was no reply, either from my brother, or from the silent things in their cages. Finally, I reached the end of the tent. The last cage was empty, save for a large hessian sack. It was tied by thick rope, wrapped around so tightly that it bulged through the gaps in its binding. I took momentary comfort in the fact that it was far too big to be Ivan. Still, I found myself approaching it, curiosity momentarily overcoming my growing sense of dread. Then, in the distance, the steam organ began to play, announcing the start of the show, and the bag began to move.

It contorted itself, pulsing and throbbing like a wounded animal’s stomach, and fell heavily forward. I screamed and fled out into the frozen night. It was only when I was about to pass back out through the wooden gates that I stopped, remembering that, even if Ivan had fled like me, my father was still in this terrible place. I resolved to rescue him, and turned back towards the main tent. Light spilled out of the open entrance, as the steam organ kept playing.

I entered to see two clowns fighting. Not the slapstick routines of the clowns I’d been used to, rife with wordplay and satire, but a crunching violence I had never seen before. One of them, huge and scowling in white and purple polka-dots, pinned down its smaller companion, whose bright yellow shirt was now streaked with red. With each blow from the big clown, the crowd, among whom I could clearly see my father, howled with laughter and cheers. The laughter didn’t sound right. None of it was right. It was as though I was looking at a tent full of vicious strangers, every one of whom wore a face I had known since birth.

Then my gaze drifted upwards, to the tightrope stretched between the towering tent poles, and my heart stopped. Halfway across, tottering on legs too short to balance properly, was Ivan. Everything else was forgotten as I watched him there, and the sounds of the world around me faded away. The question of how he had got up there, or made it halfway along that thin metal wire, didn’t even enter my mind. I could think of nothing but that next step that would send him tumbling to a floor caked in sand, greasepaint and blood.

No-one else in the audience or the ring seemed to have noticed him up there, and my throat had closed too tight to call to them. I could do nothing but watch as Ivan took another step alongthe tightrope. He swayed to one side, then the other, and I could see he was crying, tears falling to the floor like single drops of rain. He took another step. And then another. He did not fall. I watched in amazement as my seven-year-old brother walked and walked. My heart was still clenched in fear, and I could not breathe. Ivan took his final step, lifted his right foot, and placed it upon the platform on the opposite tent pole. He had made it. He gripped the pole and moved around it and out of sight.

I do not know how long I had stood there watching, but it seemed like only a moment later I felt my father’s hand grip me by the shoulder. I turned to see him standing there with Ivan by his side. He had a look on his face as though he had eaten something that had spoiled, and without a word he led us out of the circus and back to our home. The field was empty by the next morning.

No-one in our village ever spoke of that night, and when the state circus came to Morshansk the next year, my father did not offer to take us, and we did not ask.

For many years, I thought that it might have been some strange dream or distorted memory, as no-one ever acknowledged that it had happened. But I asked Ivan about it when we were older, and he hesitantly said that he remembered the circus coming, but everything after running through the gate was a blur. I pressed him further on the subject, and he just shook his head. He didn’t remember what happened, he said, but he still got terrible nightmares. Every November, around when the circus had come to Algasovo, he would dream that he was there again. He could smell the sawdust and hear the steam-organ playing, but he could not move. In the dream he would find himself tightly bound with coarse rope and trapped inside a thick hessian sack. I remembered those nights. He always woke up screaming.

GERTRUDE
Final comments: sounds, from what I can tell, like Yuri Utkin and his brother were rather lucky in their encounter with the circus, as both escaped with only significant mental trauma. A decidedly tame result for a run-in with Gregor Orsinov’s troupe, especially as this would have been during the height of their tour. If it was in the 70s, after Denikin had left, then maybe it would come as less of a surprise, but as it stands, I think it somewhat amazing that the whole town appears to have made it through in one piece. Obviously it’s a good thing the childrensurvived, but it does pique my interest in Ivan Utkin. Unfortunately, he appears to have passed away in 1984, but he must have been something rather special.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Supplemental. This is the first of the tapes I have received from Basira.

Luckily it appears that Gertrude was not as lax in properly marking these tapes as she has been the rest of the archive. While it provides some interesting context for Leanne Denikin’s statement, and this strange circus, I will admit to some disappointment it doesn’t address any of my more pressing questions about Gertrude’s tapes.

Why did she begin recording them? And why stop? If she’d been doing so right up until her death, she would’ve likely gotten through much of the archive, and… moreover I wouldn’t have had to find this tape player tucked away in the storage room, covered in dust and cobwebs.

Moreover, she clearly knows a lot more about what is going on than I had previously assumed. This is far from the first time she has encountered ‘The Other Circus’, or ‘The Circus of the Other’, or however it translates. I suppose I’ll have to return the tape to Basira, and wait until she can get me another one. It is infuriating to have to simply… wait like this, but there is little else I can do.

Additionally, I think someone may have found these… secret tapes. They do not appear to have been disturbed, but the drawer in which I kept them is slightly more open than I left it. I have not mentioned it to the others, as if any of them did open my drawer for innocent reasons, then I don’t want to let them know there is anything significant about the tapes inside. I have prised up one of the floorboards, and will be hiding them beneath there from now on.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Thomas Neill regarding his experiences working in malarial research during the spring of 2010. Original statement given February the 9th, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I hope you’ll forgive the handwriting. The shaking has gotten better over the last few months, but it’s… still quite hard to read. Also my therapist has recently changed up my medication, so if I get a bit muddled, that’s why. Just to be clear, my medication and treatment have been in response to the events I’m describing here. I was not taking any drugs before or during the event I’m setting down. I only started my treatment course after Neil’s death.

I’ve been working as a research assistant for about six years now. Anyone who tries to sell you the career with promises of money, fulfilment or grand discoveries is a liar. The work is long and repetitive, the discoveries will be credited to the fellows, at least until they’re disproved or irrelevant five years down the line, and the money is… uh, well… the money is actually not too bad, at least not until the grant dries up halfway through the project.

I guess what I mean to say is that, when I finally managed to get on a project doing something I really believed in, I was prepared to overlook a lot. It was malaria research at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. I was working under Dr. Neil Thompson. I’m pretty sure he hired me just because of how similar our names are: Thomas Neill and Neil Thompson. There was always a little moment of confusion whenever anyone asked for ‘Neil’. I think he got a kick out of it. That’s the sort of person he was, not mean-spirited or nasty, he just liked a bit of harmless chaos now and again. Balanced out his precision in the lab, I suppose, because in there he was the sort of rigorous, meticulous scientist I didn’t think existed outside of fictional medical dramas. Put it like this, he wore a white lab coat, and it was always immaculate. I don’t know ifyou realise how genuinely impressive that is working in a lab, especially given as our work was messy. Very messy.

We weren’t working on malaria directly, you understand. Our work was on the anopheline mosquitoes themselves, transmission capable but… not infected, though you’d hardly know by the reaction if one got loose. We’re talking panicked fleeing, lockdown, and trained staff coming in to kill the thing. I always used to think that level of caution was ridiculous, given our mozzies didn’t actually have malaria. Not so much anymore.

We were trying to synthesise a sort of ‘blood substitute’, a combination of the sugars and proteins that the mozzies need to survive, but one that was more enticing than a human full of blood. The idea was to create a, a lure of sorts, which would keep the mosquitoes concentrated away from people, and could potentially be used to poison them, though that bit was some ways in the future. At this point most of the research was spent trying to perfect the ‘taste’ of the thing, for lack of a better term.

The smell was also a big factor, as we needed the mozzies to choose it as a source of protein over a human, and as it progressed, it turned out that the texture and composition of the feeding bag itself helped attract them, so it ended up getting more and more like, er… human skin. The later bags even had little bits of human hair embedded into them, which made the whole thing several shades too grotesque for me, but the mozzies went mad for it, and as far as Neil was concerned, that’s all that mattered.

After about six months we had pretty much perfected it, to be honest. We had a lure bag that the mozzies preferred over a human sample in 98 per cent of cases, in which they consistently demonstrated a willingness to return to over alternatives. The issue was the cost. Our synthesised blood substitute, which we liked to call ‘haemoglobish’, was simply not cheap enough for mass production, especially considering the bag requirements, and as we were dealing in prevention rather than cure, we were always going to be compared to the cost effectiveness of just buying a boatload of mosquito nets. And that wasn’t going to be a comparison where we came out on top. We kept going though, trying to recreate the effect with cheaper, more easily available materials, but that was when Neil first started muttering darkly about funding.

Here’s where I should probably say a bit about Neil’s syringe. Now, our Dr. Thompson claimed to be descended from the 19 th -century physician, John Snow, a great-great-nephew or a great- great-great-grandson, or something like that. I’m not sure how much you know about epidemiology in the 1850s, and it’s certainly a common enough name, but Snow was pivotal in laying the groundwork for the germ theory of disease transmission, and is widely credited with helping end the cholera outbreak of 1854. I only bring this up because Neil had… well, I suppose you could call it something of a totem. It was an old Victorian syringe, which he claimed had belonged to this illustrious ancestor of his.

I don’t know if it was true or not, but Neil certainly treated the thing like a relic. He kept it in excellent condition, with glass shining and brass polished, and would carry it around in a small case tucked into his lab coat pocket. Whenever he was called upon to do any calculations or look over results, his hand would slip into that pocket, and he’d gently clutch that case. So, you can imagine that it came as something of a surprise when he came to me, and asked for my help in selling it.

Now, according to Neil, our project’s grant money had run out, and without alternative sources of funding, we weren’t going to be able to continue the work. I’m not sure how much I believed him, as the word around the lab was Neil had something of a gambling habit. In fairness to him, I’d heard all sorts of baseless gossip flying around about everybody, and honestly don’t know how the money worked for our project. I’d just signed the contract and took the pay cheques, it never occurred to me to investigate our funding myself, so he might have been telling the truth. He might have been trying to save the project. It didn’t really matter, as by this point Neil and I were quite close, so… if he asked me to do him a favour, I wasn’t exactly going to refuse.

When I say he asked for my help selling it, that’s not exactly accurate. He’d already found a buyer, some antiques dealer who Neil said had offered him six figures for it. That sounded mad to me. I mean, it was a valuable trinket, sure, but… that’s all that it was. Neil didn’t seem entirely convinced the guy was on the level either, which was why he asked me to come along.

I’m a big guy, six foot seven, fourteen-and-a-half stone, so I can cut a pretty intimidating figure if I need to, especially if you don’t know that I’ve never thrown a punch in my life. That’s what Neil wanted me to do, just be there, have his back while he went to meet this guy, so he’d knownot to try anything. I don’t remember the name, I’m afraid, but he was foreign; Indonesian, I think, or Samoan.

I expected the meeting to be after dark in some dingy dockyard, but as it turned out they’d arranged to meet at The Three Greyhounds pub in Soho the following afternoon. I wanted to dress to intimidate, but I didn’t really have any appropriate clothes, so I just wore a suit. As it turned out, I needn’t have bothered – this overly generous antiques dealer was almost as big as I was, and unlike me, he looked like he could handle himself.

He didn’t even look at me when he entered the pub, almost deserted at that time on a Tuesday afternoon. He sat opposite Neil, while I stood awkwardly just outside their booth. They talked hurriedly and quietly to each other, and I couldn’t make out many of the words, though it seemed like they were just discussing the price for the syringe. Eventually I saw a couple of briefcases exchange hands, and that was it. The dealer got up and walked out, holding a suitcase that seemed much lighter than the one he’d come in with. Neil gave me a relieved nod, and headed back to the laboratory with his own suitcase, that I can only assume was full of cash.

This is when things… started to go wrong. When things started to get weird. I don’t know if it had anything to do with Neil selling that syringe. I mean, I don’t know how it… could have, but that’s when the trouble started.

The first thing I noticed was the heat. Now mozzies need to be kept at a temperature of around 23 to 24 degrees Celcius, which might not sound too hot, but at this point it was late May and we were started to head towards summer, so on a sunny day the room where we kept the cages felt… stifling. But as the days wore on, the heat started to seep out into the rest of the lab, until we were all coated with sweat for most of the day.

We called the building manager to get the heating checked, and he told us everything was working fine. He even agreed to turn on the air conditioning for us, but it made no difference. The lab was warm and humid, everything felt sticky, and I took to bringing in a change of shirt for when I left at the end of the day. Luckily none of the chemicals we were mixing into the faux blood bags were particularly temperature sensitive, or God knows how much work we might have lost.

That was unpleasant, of course, but there was no real evidence of it being paranormal. No, that didn’t come until a couple of weeks later. The mozzies started acting unusually. We kept them in metal mesh cages so they’re viewable at all times. There’s a hole in the front which is lined with gauze that can be gathered up to make a seal or allow you access to the cage. Normally they’re happy enough to flit about their cages. But then, without warning, they stopped. They landed on the cage and just stayed there. They were distributed almost completely evenly over the inside, to the point where it almost looked regimented, and then they would stay like that for hours. It was unsettling, and more than once the researchers retrieved some for testing, looking for any change that might have resulted in this altered behaviour, but everything came back normal.

Sometimes though, when I was working late, I’d look into that room, and I swear I would see a mass of mosquitoes in each cage, crowded in a thick clump around the gauze covering the entrance. I should have told somebody, but at the time I didn’t know what I was seeing.

The mosquitoes’ attitudes towards the fake blood bags changed as well. Instead of meandering round, landing, feeding, flying off, feeding again, a few times, now as soon as the bag was placed inside, every mozzie in there would descend on it immediately, all at once, until the bag was completely covered in needle mouths and flitting wings. It genuinely started to scare me.

What really scared me, though, and everyone else on the team, was what came out of the blood bag afterwards. Shortly after they began exhibiting this behaviour, one of the other research assistants, George Larson, was retrieving one of the empty bags and returning it for disposal in the lab, when he stumbled, and it fell to the floor. When it hit the ground with a moist thud, it became immediately clear that the bag was not as empty as it had first appeared.

The blood substitute, the ‘haemoglobish’, was a clear, syrupy orange, almost like dark honey, but slightly thinner. What oozed out of the bag now was a deep, cloudy red. At this point nobody objected to calling in a biohazard. They took samples of the substance, and put us through a basic decontamination, and then I went home. Odd to think now that my thoughts back then were full more of curiosity than of fear.

The tests came back, and were as alarming as they were impossible. It was blood. Real blood. O Negative and infected with malaria. Not just malaria though, but yellow fever, hepatitis B and signs of cholera. There were other substances in the sample as well, that they were unable toidentify. We were all told that we were to be quarantined immediately, and that our project was shut down until further notice. I remember standing there in the lab as they said this. I heard a strangled cry from behind me, and turned around to see Neil, shaking his head over and over, his face a mask of rage and hatred. He wasn’t looking at the people who had come to quarantine us though. No, he was looking at the room full of mosquitoes, as though they had planned this, as though it was purely through their malicious intent that he was watching his career burn to nothing.

Before anyone could stop him, he grabbed a fire extinguisher and ran into the mosquito room. God knows what he was hoping to achieve. Spray a few cages to death in some petty act of revenge, maybe? He never got the chance.

As he fumbled with the release mechanism, a tremendous buzzing filled the air, and suddenly I realised what they had been doing clustered around the gauze those nights. There was no time to pull Neil out, so I did the only thing I could. I shut the door.

Thousands of mosquitoes erupted from those cages, far more, I thought, that we could possibly have had on site. There was no way to count them though as they swarmed onto poor Neil; first his hands and his face, then beneath his clothes, until there was no part of him not covered with the things. He swatted at them, killing some, but there were just too many, and after a few seconds it was clear he was going into shock. He tried to scream, but that just gave them more places to drink from.

That was when I turned away. There hadn’t been a single drop of blood spilled, but we all knew that Dr. Neil Thompson was dead. I don’t remember much after that. There was a lot of shouting and a lot of noise, then tests. Confused and worried academics asking me questions that, of course, I couldn’t answer. It was almost a month before the world was in focus again.

The faculty have been all right to me actually, so I should probably be thankful. They were so keen to get this swept neatly under the rug that they just let me go, with such a glowing reference I just walked into a lab tech position at King’s College. It’s mostly helping students, but that’s all right. I think I’m done with research.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Can’t stand mosquitoes. Horrible things. Any solution to the issue of malaria that doesn’t concentrate on wiping them out is not one that I have much time for. Still, this grotesque account doesn’t give us many leads to follow. Obviously there’s the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine itself, but Tim’s investigation yielded little significant information. Apparently those staff who’ve been around long enough to remember the event, either didn’t know the details or have been well briefed to keep their mouths shut.

Aside from the fact that Dr. Neil Thompson died in a lab accident on the 30th May 2010, there’s little more to be found. Sasha managed to get a copy of the inquest report, which is… infuriatingly vague, but does list the cause of death as blood loss, and the official verdict as ‘death by misadventure’.

I don’t think there can be much doubt that the antiques dealer is the curious Mr. Salesa. He’s now turned up enough that I can no longer write it off as a coincidence, and have been having a word with Rosie about whether we can make contact with him. Apparently he hasn’t been seen for almost two years now, with rumours in the trade running to everything from ‘he had a quiet retirement’ to ‘he’s trying to dodge a jail sentence’, or even ‘he was shot dead in Colombia for stealing a priceless artefact from a drug lord’. Whatever the reason, it doesn’t look like he’ll be answering questions any time soon, though I have urged Rosie to keep trying.

Aside from that, there’s little more we can do with this statement. Mr. Neill himself passed away last year. Martin hasn’t been able to get a hold of the official cause of death, but judging by the number of antibiotics the police report list as being at his home at the time, it must have been something very nasty indeed.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I’ve been doing some digging into Tim, watching him. He’s certainly doing his job, far better than I’d have expected, given his recent experiences. There’s just one thing I don’t understand: why is he working for the Institute? A First in Anthropology from Trinity College, five successful years spent climbing the ladder at a major publishing house, and then, out of the blue, he decides to come work for us.

Why? I can’t find any other indication of an interest in the paranormal, nothing to indicate this area of study appealed to him. And why stay after everything that happened with Prentiss? Is it just loyalty or could it be something –

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Hey, I just wanted to check if you wanted a cup of tea?

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

MARTIN
Oh, oh, sorry, are you recording? I, I thought you were done for the day?

ARCHIVIST
I-I was. I am. It’s…

MARTIN
Why do you have pictures of Tim?

ARCHIVIST
It… it’s a performance review thing, going over some files for it.

MARTIN
But that looks like a picture of his house?

[RUSTLING OF PAPERS]
ARCHIVIST
[Abruptly] Confidential files that you… legally you shouldn’t really be looking at them. Please, er, please leave, Martin.

MARTIN
Right, right. Right, right…

Did you want that tea?

ARCHIVIST
No. Thank you, Martin.

[DOOR CLOSES]
I need to find a better place to do these recordings.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Herbert Knox, regarding a repeat customer to his bookshop in Chichester. Original statement given December 21st, 1998. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It’s hard to know exactly where to begin when explaining to you what exactly it was that I experienced. There were many things that happened, each strange and inexplicable in and of itself, but I’ll be damned if I can see how they connect to each other, except that they’ve all ended up involving the same student from the university.

His name was Michael Crew, though he normally went by Mike, at least to me. I’m not usually one to pay much attention to the students that come into my shop, especially during the start of a new school year. I have something of a soft spot for the antique when it comes to my furnishings, and that, combined with the age of my stock, means that when new students arrive at the university, they generally regard the discovery of Lion Street Books as something of a curiosity. I’ve heard more than one comparison to that shop in Stephen King’s Needful Things, whatever it was called.

Anyway, as I deal mostly in rare books and antiquities, they generally get one look at the prices and suddenly their interest dries up. Of course, there are always a couple of rich kids whose parents weren’t able to buy their way into Oxbridge, so it’s not a complete waste.

So it’s rare that I have any cause to remember the face of my student customers. But Mike struck me the moment he walked into my shop. This would have been last September - I don’t remember the exact date, though I’m sure if I looked up my receipts, I could tell you. He was short, barely over five feet, and very thin. Underfed, I remember thinking. It hadn’t yet turned cold, but he wore a high-collared coat, and a thick scarf wrapped around his neck.

Now, I’m getting on in years, and much as I love my shop, the building can get a bit drafty come autumn, so I generally have the heating up quite high. It was clearly enough for him to become uncomfortable, wrapped up like that, and he removed the scarf to reveal a branching pattern of white scar tissue arcing up the side of his neck.

That was interesting, certainly, but it wasn’t what actually caught my eye. No, what struck me most was that, rather than wonder or curiosity, as I would see in the faces of the other students who found their way into Lion Street Books, this young man began scanning the shelves with an expression that seemed more like impatience.

He was clearly looking for something specific, so after a few minutes I asked him if I could help. Without looking up, he said he was after a copy of de Plancy’s Dictionnaire Infernal - the older, the better. I only had a 1908 translation in stock, but I said I would make enquiries if he wished for an older edition. He didn’t reply to this, nor to my casual inquiry as to whether he was studying demonology, or the occult.

He took it to my desk to buy it, and I started rooting around for the credit card machine, when I smelled the strangest thing. It was like just before a storm breaks - that sharp smell in the air. But looking outside, the sky was clear and the sun was shining.

Mike seemed to smell it, too, and he went very still. He reached into his jacket and pulled out a wad of cash. He quickly counted it out, grabbed the book, and was through the door before I even had a chance to ring him up a receipt. The smell faded as soon as he was out of sight.

I didn’t know his name at that point, but it was far from the last time I saw him. He became something of a regular. Maybe once every three weeks or so he’d come in and check any new stock I had. He was interested in spiritualism, history of witchcraft, anything mystical, especially from before 1850. He also bought a few books on meteorology, especially pre-enlightenment, and once a book on the work of Gottfried Leibniz - though I don’t remember the title.

I have no idea where he was getting his money, but he had a lot of it. He was able to pay five figures for a copy of a 1559 printing of the Malleus Maleficarum without breaking a sweat. At some point, I learned his name. I mean, I certainly wouldn’t have described him as a friend, or even close, but over the last year he’d easily been my most-regular customer.

That wasn’t the only time I smelled that acrid tang in the air, though. Sometimes when he was in there, it would come again all at once. It never seemed to be coming from Mike, exactly, but when he was around the smell would just suddenly be there. It was the only time I would ever smell it inside, and when I did, Mike would just stop whatever he was doing and leave immediately. He wouldn’t run. He’d just leave.

There was another thing, too. Whenever he was in, the lightbulbs in my shop would burn brighter. I didn’t even realize this until he’d been coming for several months, as it was usually in daylight when he went shopping. But when winter made its presence known, his late afternoon visits began to take place after dark, and I noticed that whenever he came in, the shop got brighter. The bulbs would start to buzz very softly, and the filaments within them would glow with a surprising intensity. There was this strange electric crackling, and once I even got a shock when I turned a lamp on.

I never brought it up with Mike, though. I don’t even know how I would have gone about bringing it up.

It was February when I got the Leitner book. I’d heard of him before, of course, though I’d never met the man. The rare book trade is a comparatively small world, at least within the UK, and his name would often come up whenever I was gossiping with my peers. Sometimes it was about which valuable piece he’d snatched for a fraction of its true value, or the ridiculous amount he’d paid for a book that everyone else was sure was a fake. Occasionally, there were more-unsavory rumors about his personal life.

So, even though I’d never personally made his acquaintance, I was well-aware of Jurgen Leitner and his collection. And when he disappeared in 1994, I was one of the many that heard whispers on the grapevine that a few of his books were back in circulation. I never thought I’d actually get my hands on one, though. Not until I heard about Kirsten’s death.

Kirstin Bowman was a book dealer friend of mine down in Salisbury. I suppose you could call her a rival, in some ways, but we’d always been very friendly. In fact, there were a few years back in the 80s when we were very friendly, indeed. But we hadn’t spoken much in the last year or two.

Well, in January of this year, she passed away. Lost balance on the stairs and broke her neck. To be honest, I wasn’t as surprised by her death as I might have been - though it was rather alarming. Over the last few years the landscape of the UK rare books trade has changed significantly. A lot of the big names in the old guard have gone missing or retired - or, sometimes, even been found dead.

The police even got involved for a while, as there was talk of maybe someone out there targeting booksellers. But they never found anything to indicate it was anything other than a coincidence. I suppose it’s just an example of how one generation inevitably makes way for the next, but Kirsten was the first time it had affected someone I knew well.

What surprised me more than her death, however, was that she had made me her literary executor, and left me the vast majority of her stock. So it was that I came into the possession of a Leitner.

It was a strange one, all right. Ex Altiora or “From the Heights,” was the name. It was custom-bound, in the late 1800s, from what I could see, though the pages looked to be significantly older than that. 17th-century, I would have said. It was written in Latin, and seemed to be a long poem in the style of Virgil, illustrated with some quite-striking woodcuts.

It told the tale of a small, unnamed town high on a clifftop, that sees a monstrous creature begin to approach. The poem is unclear whether it is a beast, a demon, or a god, as it uses the words interchangeably, but it is seen far-off, its head and body lost among the clouds.

The majority of the story details the villagers’ attempts to prepare to do battle against this creature, but each time they devise a countermeasure, the thing gets closer, and is shown to be far larger than previously-suspected, rendering their preparations insignificant. At last, when it is almost upon them, its impossible vastness undeniable, the villagers surrender to despair, and hurl themselves from the clifftop onto the rocks far below.

It was a strange book, and made all the stranger by the fact that it appeared to be utterly unique. I could find no record of it in any catalogue I had available, and after a few calls to a couple of museums and archives I knew dealt with similar texts, I was convinced that this may well have been a completely unique book.

This didn’t please me as much as you might imagine, because what it meant was that I had an artifact on my hands: one that belonged far more in a museum than it did in a library. I’d only had a museum-worthy book come once before, and the process of authentication, and the work involved in selling it, had, quite frankly, not been worth the amount that I sold it for. Museums are not as well-funded as private collectors.

Beyond that, there was something about the book itself that unsettled me. Reading it was… disorientating in a way that I can’t easily put into words. Especially the woodcuts, although they were just the village, or the cliffs, or empty forests, or mountains. They were quite crude in many ways, but certainly not unsettling. And yet twice when reading it, and observing the woodcuts, I fell off my chair.

Over the week I possessed it, I had enough dizzy spells that I had to book an appointment with my doctor, although at the time I didn’t make any direct connection between them and the book. I had bad dreams, as well. I don’t recall them with any clarity, but I’m rather sure they were dreams of falling.

Mike came in at the end of that week. I wouldn’t go so far as to say I was expecting him, but I’d put a half dozen books to one side for his consideration, as I assumed he’d be in at some point soon. As was his habit, he said almost nothing, and the cold February air was enough that he didn’t even feel the need to remove his scarf, so only the faintest hints of that branching scar could be seen creeping out from below it. The bulbs crackled and brightened in his presence, and I presented the books I had chosen to him. He spent some minutes looking through them before pushing them back with a shake of the head. This was not unusual for him, and I took it as no insult.

I turned to put them back on the shelf, when I was almost overcome by a wave of dizziness. I gripped the back of my chair and steadied myself. When I looked back at Mike, he was staring at the Leitner book with a wild expression I had never seen on his face before. He pointed at Ex Altiora and asked me how much it was.

I started to tell him it wasn’t for sale, but he had this look in his eyes - this furious desperation. It scared me, to be honest, and I had a sudden sense that this man was willing to kill me for that book. All this, combined with the discomfort I felt with the thing anyway, was just a bit too much for me. I named a figure that I thought was maybe double what it was actually worth, and Mike wrote me out a cheque so fast that I thought his pen would go clean through the paper. For this, I insisted on ringing him up a receipt, and without another word, he was out into the rainy February afternoon.

And that would have been it. Given what happened next, I don’t think I would ever have seen Michael Crew again, if it wasn’t for the simple fact that his cheque bounced.

I didn’t quite believe it at first. He had always been so willing to drop huge amounts of money on books that the idea of him not being able to afford something had never quite registered. But there was no mistake. After no small amount of consideration, I decided that the only decent thing to do was to actually go to him and discuss the matter. Maybe I could get the book back, maybe I could make alternate arrangements. Either way, I felt like I owed it to Mike.

I had his address on file from a delivery he had requested a couple of months back, so it was a simple matter to close up the shop early and make the short walk across Chichester to his flat - rather lavish by student standards, but easy enough to find. The sky was a bruised gray as I walked across town, and I was glad I had thought to bring my umbrella, as it was promising to be a storm. I recognized the smell from Mike’s previous visits - though even then I didn’t realize what it meant.

I reached his door and knocked. I was careful to be firm, but not aggressive, in my knocking, as I had an odd conviction that an overly confrontational knock would have made it much harder to retrieve the book. I needn’t have given it any thought at all. The door opened before I had even finished knocking, and I had the oddest feeling in my stomach, as though I was standing on the edge of a great drop, and I took an instinctive step back.

Mike stood there, looking terrible. From inside came the odor of a man who has not left the room or opened a window for some days. Strewn across the floor were pages and pages of scrawled Latin text, which alarmed me, until I saw the unharmed and whole book clutched in his arms. I started to explain what had happened and why I was there, but he didn’t seem to be registering my words - just staring blankly at the space I occupied, as though he didn’t notice I was standing there.

I remember I had just about reached the point of repeating the word “cheque” over and over, in the hopes he acknowledged it, when the first droplets of rain began to hit his window. Without warning, Mike’s eyes went wide, in what might have been realization, or maybe just fear, and his face got so pale his branching scar seemed almost to vanish. Then the first peal of thunder rolled over us, and that smell hit me with such an intensity I could barely breathe.

I was on the floor before I knew what was happening, and turned to see Mike running full-pelt down the corridor, clutching the Leitner book. I must have hit my head, and my thinking was very muddled: I was convinced he was trying to escape with the book. With a determination that, quite frankly, I never would have expected from myself, I decided that I had to stop it. I had to stop Michael Crew from stealing my Leitner. So I got up, umbrella forgotten, and chased him out into the pouring rain. We weaved our way through Chichester, lightning arcing through the sky in a way I’d only seen a handful of times in the 40 years I lived there.

I could just about make out the fleeing figure of Mike in front of me, and sometimes - when the lightning lit the sky - I could have sworn I saw someone else chasing him. It was hard to make out, as it only seemed to appear for those momentary flashes, but it seemed tall, thin, its limbs angular and branching. Like Mike’s scar.

I don’t know how he got into the bell tower for Chichester Cathedral. It stands separate from the main building, tall, imposing, and square, starkly-illuminated by the flashing sky. One of the doors at the base stood open, and I didn’t stop to think how it had been opened before dashing inside and starting up the stairs.

The smell was so thick inside I gagged on the acrid stench. In my determination to chase a young man stealing a book, I had apparently completely forgotten my age, which returned all at once, and I collapsed slightly on the stairs. I began to climb then, slowly, towards the top of the bell tower. I have never been afraid of heights, but as I got higher and higher up those stairs, my head started to swim, and my heart was beating so fast I was honestly worried that I was in danger of a heart attack.

Finally, I reached the top flight of stairs. I could hear shouting from the bell room. It was Mike - he was screaming something that sounded like a chant, or a prayer. Most of it was in languages I didn’t know, but I could make out the words “altiora,” “vertigo,” and “the vast.”

I reached the top, and there I saw Mike, standing before an open window. He held the book before him like a protective ward, and in front of him was a strange, branching figure. It crackled and fizzed, lit by a strobing white light, as though the lightning was within the room itself.

It was just standing there, like it couldn’t approach. As Mike reached the crescendo of his invocation, with a cry of “I am yours,” he leapt through the open window, and - presumably - to his death.

The strange figure cried out, a sound like tearing sandpaper, and seemed to be dragged through the window with him. The sharp smell vanished instantly, and I was alone in the dark.

I say “presumably” about his jumping almost a hundred feet to his death because, when I went out, I could find no body at the base of the tower. Neither could the police, who obviously treated me like a lunatic. When the sky cleared shortly afterwards, it became apparent that all the windows to the bell chamber were closed and sealed.

I never saw Michael Crew or the Leitner book again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Michael Crew. Another name that seems to crop up more than once in relation to Leitners, and twice regarding this particular volume.

The events here seem to have taken place a couple of years after those of statement 9991006. Could his exposure to The Boneturner’s Tale have catalyzed an interest in Jurgen Leitner? Or perhaps an early experiment? It seems as though he was attempting to use the book as protection against whatever was chasing him. Did The Boneturner’s Tale not work in that regard…? And what was it that chased him, bringing that smell with it?

It is a shame that Ex Altiora was burned in the end. I would have been fascinated to read it - especially as there is one feature that I’m surprised Mr. Knox did not mention, comparing his statement to that of Dominic Swain in 0132806.

The book which Mr. Knox received did not seem to have a woodcut of the dark night sky, with the branching, arching design of the Lichtenberg figure.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

Someone else has been going down into the tunnels. When I came in yesterday, I noticed the trapdoor appeared to have been disturbed. It was unlocked. I confronted the others, but they all deny it, of course.

Someone must think there is more down there of value - unless they’re trying to hide something. Searching or hiding, it could be either. I might try to set up a camera to watch the trapdoor, if I can find somewhere effective to hide it.

I did go down there to see if I could find anything, but it seems much as it did last time. The only difference now is… all the spiderwebs. They seem to have spread down there. I think I saw some of the larger specimens actually eating the remains of the worms. It was a… disconcerting sight, and I left almost immediately.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[SOUND OF PEN SCRATCHING AGAINST PAPER IN SHARP, FRUSTRATED MOVEMENTS]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Helen Richardson, regarding, uh… how would you describe it?

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]
ARCHIVIST
…Miss Richardson?

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]
HELEN
- uh, what?

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]
ARCHIVIST
Your experience, how would you summarize it?

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]
HELEN
Um, well, I’ve been, I’ve been trying to draw you a map, but, it doesn’t, it doesn’t work.

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES; HELEN CAN NOW BE HEARD BREATHING HARD AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS]
ARCHIVIST
- Right. Statement of Helen Richardson, regarding a new door in the house she was selling. Statement recorded direct from subject, 2nd October, 2016. Statement begins.

[PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]
ARCHIVIST
…

Miss Richardson?

[PEN SCRATCHING STOPS]
HELEN
There’s no left turns. Look, [paper rustles] look, none, it just, it just turns right, it doesn’t make any sense [paper rustles] no, it wasn’t a spiral because you could, you could always go forward, I mean, I -

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [sigh]

HELEN
- I, I did mostly, just forward, and the paths never got shorter, like you were coming to a center, they just - kept going - it doesn’t, doesn’t make any sense! [paper rustles] Look at it -

ARCHIVIST
Ah, Miss Richardson -

[PAPER RUSTLES]
HELEN
Look at it!

ARCHIVIST
…You’re right. This map doesn’t make any sense -

HELEN
[overlapping] After a few turns -

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] - it becomes a mess of impossible lines, yes. But it will be very useful for our investigation if you could start at the beginning, give us some context.

Tell me how it got started.

HELEN
What do you want to know? There wasn’t a door. And then there was.

HELEN (STATEMENT)
I worked for Wolverton Kendrick. I still do, I suppose, I haven’t officially quit, but I haven’t been back there since this happened. We mostly sell properties around the Wimbledon area, sometimes as far as Collier’s Wood. We specialize in well-appointed family homes for successful professionals looking to move further out of London. We’ve had a lot of success, and these days usually have anything up to two hundred properties on the market, most of them detached family homes or big well-appointed flats.

I’ve been with the agency for about eight years now, and I’ve done thousands of viewings for them, so believe me when I say there was nothing unusual about that house on Saint Albans Avenue. I mean - maybe the fact the owner was selling it for less than two million? Even then, it still wasn’t suspiciously cheap, it was just a lovely house in a good area, like every other house I sell.

But I think back to driving there, the trees seem darker than they should have been. The other houses sit there, sinister, behind their tall gates and empty driveways. But I think, oh, that’s just my memory changing to fit what I know now. At the time, I don’t think I felt anything except annoyance that I was going to be two minutes late to the viewing.

You know, what’s funny, even after everything that happened, I actually have trouble picturing the house in my mind. It was so much like all the others. So… unremarkable.

And it’s not like I’ve been back.

For most of the morning viewings, it was business as usual. I had the usual stream of bankers and executives asking the standard questions, occasionally livened up by a private dentist or a barrister. I walked around that house for the better part of five hours, and by the end I’d been in every room, and opened every cupboard, dozens of times. And I promise you, I swear to you: that door was not there.

He… came… at the end of the viewings. It was the last appointment, and although he didn’t give his name, I am absolutely sure he was not Mr. and Mrs. Adrian Lombardi.

He was tall, maybe six and a half feet? And he had long, straw-coloured hair that fell onto his shoulders in loose ringlets. His face was round and unthreatening, although he stood so still when I answered the door that it did rather unnerve me.

I asked him if he was Mr. Lombardi, and he said no, but that Mr. Lombardi wouldn’t be coming, so he was here instead. It’s not unheard of for some of our clients to send their people to viewings in their, place so it didn’t seem like an unreasonable statement, even if it would normally, you know, be arranged ahead of time. I just, I just thought I’d missed an email.

I held up my arm for a handshake, but he just looked at it, and laughed, keeping his hands firmly by his side. That was when I first started to think that something might be wrong, because his laugh didn’t… sound right? I, I don’t know how to describe it, but it wasn’t, it wasn’t a human laugh.

I should have stopped there, and left, or called the police, but he’d already walked past me and into the house, and I started to give him the sales pitch, almost as a reflex. I decided that, since he didn’t seem to be actively threatening, I’d just give him a quick rundown of the house and get out of there as soon as possible. He was strange, but I felt that if he did work for the Lombardis, then I didn’t want to be rude, and have to deal with a complaint later? So I took him ‘round the place.

He followed me. His, his eyes were always looking where I pointed, but he never seemed to take anything in, and he didn’t ask any questions at all. At least, not ‘till we reached the second floor.

We’d just climbed up the stairs to the top of the house. I went into the first bedroom, and I started talking about its potential as a child’s room or a study. The ceiling was quite low, and I thought I’d better warn him to be careful - but when I looked back, he wasn’t there. I stepped back out onto the landing to find him looking at a new door. He asked me what was behind it, and I just stood there, staring.

It was a small, unremarkable door, painted dark yellow, with a matte-black handle. And it wasn’t there before.

I had been up on that landing dozens of times already, and I definitely did not remember it being there. It wasn’t, wasn’t just that I hadn’t noticed it, you have to understand that, it wasn’t there. It couldn’t have been there, I checked the floor plan I had with me, and obviously [anxious laugh] there was no door shown on it, it was an exterior wall on the second floor, there can’t have been anything beyond it but empty air [anxious laugh] and a significant drop, except that I had made several circuits of the outside while showing off the garden, [tearful] and there was absolutely no door visible there, it was just a dark yellow door that couldn’t be there.

The man asked me again what was inside, and I just stood there, staring at it with my mouth hanging open in shock. I honestly don’t know how long I stood there looking at it. My strange client said nothing, and I’d almost forgotten he was there by the time I finally made up my mind.

I reached out and gripped the handle. It was warm. I turned it, and as soon as I did so the door swung open. I didn’t need to pull it at all. It opened slowly, but deliberately, like… it was keen for me to go inside. And beyond that threshold, where there should have been empty air over the garden, there was a long, windowless corridor.

It was lit by electric lamps attached to the walls every ten feet or so, and the walls were papered over in a swirling green pattern. Running down the middle of the faded yellow carpet was a rug, black and thick, that disappeared off as the path very gradually curved to the left.

On the walls were what at first looked like mirrors, but I, I soon realized that, while a few of them were mirrors, most of them were paintings or photographs of that same corridor from various odd angles.

Here’s the thing: I don’t remember going through that door. I remember standing there, looking down it with this… feeling of dread. And then I remember feeling a surge of terror as I heard the door close behind me with a click. I spun ‘round, but there was no handle on this side, just a huge, smooth mirror. I saw myself stood in that strange corridor, and it looked like I’d been crying for hours. I hammered, shouted, I threw myself against the uncaring face of that mirror, and nothing happened. It didn’t even crack.

I took out my phone. My mind was muddy, but… I don’t know exactly what I was hoping to do, call the police, maybe? My colleagues? I, I think I might have wanted just to check the time. I had no idea how long I’d been in there.

When I opened the phone, all that was on the screen was another picture of the corridor, just like the paintings on the walls.

So I started walking down the corridor. Like… I mean, there was there was, there was nothing else I could do. It dragged on and on, bending almost imperceptibly to the left. Well, every once in a while there would be another corridor turning off to the right at a sharp angle. At first, I, I avoided these branching paths, thinking if I walked along the corridor far enough, it would have to lead somewhere. But after what felt like miles, I finally decided that taking one of the turns… it, it couldn’t make things worse.

The branching corridors were identical. Mirrors, and paintings that mirrored them, were everywhere, and when I turned back, I think I must have gotten turned around? Because the left turn, that would have led back towards the door, wasn’t, it wasn’t there anymore. It was another long corridor, with paths off to the right.

The wallpaper was a different colour, though, I think. It definitely changed, but I never noticed it switching, I’d simply realize that it hadn’t been red when I’d been walking - or, blue, or purple, whatever colour it was at the time. All the colours seemed to shift in that place. Even the yellow of the carpet, the black of the rug, it… felt like I couldn’t trust my eyes.

Based… on the date of my appointment, and the newspaper I found later, I think I was in there for three days. It was, it was impossible to tell from inside, though I don’t remember sleeping, or even feeling tired? I did spend a lot of time just… slumped in despair, though, so maybe I slept then. I had no food or water, I got very delirious by the end. It didn’t help it was so warm in there, although it often seemed like I couldn’t stop shivering, like I was cold.

I was almost passed out from misery when I saw it. It was stood way off in the distance, a long way down the corridor. It seemed almost human, from a distance, but as it got closer, I saw that it was anything but.

Its body was thin and limp, and when it moved, it shifted, like I was watching it through rippling water. Its hands were swollen, and bits of them jutted out at annoying angles. It was, it was moving towards me fast, and as I looked I saw that all the pictures on the wall now showed this thing - although each distorted it differently, like a selection of funhouse mirrors - but all of them, all of them showed the hands as bulbous and sharp.

I looked around in desperation, trying to find any hope of escape. The thing was getting closer and closer, and I could hear that weird laugh again. And then I saw it. A mirrored frame that did not contain the creature.

I had no reason to think it would help, but I could see no other choice but waiting for death. So I threw myself at this empty mirror.

And just like that, I was out. I felt the cold night air on my face and, and wet tarmac under my hands and knees. It was raining. I turned up in Dulwich, of all places. I screamed for about five minutes before someone came to help me.

I don’t really know what else to tell you. I was hospitalized for a short while, until they were satisfied my dehydration wasn’t going to cause any complications. And I spent a long time at home. Not opening any doors.

Finally, [suppressing tears] after the latest bout of nightmares, I decided to come to you and tell you my story. Maybe you can make some sense of this.

ARCHIVIST
…Perhaps. Leave it with us. We’ll… do some digging and see what we can find.

HELEN
[tearful] You believe me, then?

ARCHIVIST
I… yes. Yes, I think I do.

One thing, though. You say you don’t remember the man’s name…

HELEN
I… I think he told me, but I just, I…

ARCHIVIST
- it wasn’t “Michael,” was it?

HELEN
…Yes! Michael! That was it…! [vengeful] Do you know him?

ARCHIVIST
Maybe…

We’ll make some enquiries and get back to you, Miss Richardson. Thank you for your time.

HELEN
Right, well… I’ll just leave you to it, then.

[SOUND OF DOOR OPENING SLOWLY AND SQUEAKILY, THEN CLOSING MORE-SLOWLY AND MORE-SQUEAKILY]
ARCHIVIST
…

Sasha!

[SOUND OF DOOR OPENING NOTICEABLY FASTER AND LESS-SQUEAKILY]
NOT!SASHA
Sorry, did you call?

ARCHIVIST
I, I’ve just had a statement from someone claims they met your Michael.

NOT!SASHA
Michael? The distorted Michael?

ARCHIVIST
The very same. I don’t think we re-recorded your statement on him, did we?

NOT!SASHA
Did we need to?

ARCHIVIST
It was one of the tapes that vanished during the attack.

NOT!SASHA
Oh. Well, I can give it again, if you’d like, but I haven’t seen him since.

ARCHIVIST
And you can’t think of any further insights? Nothing you forgot to mention last time?

NOT!SASHA
I don’t think so, no.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm. What are you doing at the moment?

NOT!SASHA
Reorganizing your “discredited” section. It’s a bit of a mess. If I may say so, John, I feel you’ve been a bit less conscientious about it, since you got back.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, that’s fair. Sorry, I… let me know once you’re finished, I’d very much like you on this case.

NOT!SASHA
Yes, will do.

[MICHAEL SPEAKS OVER DOOR CLOSING SQUEAKLESSLY AND RISING SQUEALING STATIC]
MICHAEL
Do you even know they’re lying to you?

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] I, I, I’m sorry, I didn’t - can I help you? This place is off-limits.

MICHAEL
I disagree.

ARCHIVIST
Who let you in here?

MICHAEL
“Let?”

[MICHAEL LAUGHS. THE SOUND IS NEARLY-IMPERCEPTIBLY DOUBLED, AS IF HE IS LAUGHING FROM MORE THAN ONE THROAT, A FRACTION OF A SECOND OUT-OF-SYNC WITH HIMSELF.]
MICHAEL
I’m afraid that isn’t how this works.

ARCHIVIST
You’re him.

MICHAEL
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
Michael.

MICHAEL
…

That is a real name.

ARCHIVIST
Are you here to kill me?

MICHAEL
No.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

Why are, why are you here? Wh -

MICHAEL
I am simply collecting what is mine, Archivist. The one who entered my domain.

ARCHIVIST
…Miss Rich-ard-son? You own those hallways?

MICHAEL
What a fffascinating question. Does your hand in any way own your stomach?

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [muted] Ah -

MICHAEL
In any case, it doesn’t matter: the Wanderer had a brief respite, but it’s over now.

ARCHIVIST
Well, you’re too late, sh-she’s gone!

MICHAEL
[laugh] …yes… ah… did you notice which door she left through? [continues laughing quietly]

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] Yes… wait… no, there was, there -

MICHAEL
[overlapping] There has never been a door there, Archivist, your mind plays tricks on you…

ARCHIVIST
Let her go!

MICHAEL
[laugh] No?

ARCHIVIST
Get her back here!

MICHAEL
[laugh] Are you going to attack me?

[ARCHIVIST YELLS IN PAIN AS MICHAEL CONTINUES LAUGHING QUIETLY]
ARCHIVIST
- who the hell are you!?

MICHAEL
I am not a “who,” Archivist, I am a “what.” A “who” requires a degree of identity I can’t ever retain.

ARCHIVIST
So… Michael isn’t your real name, what?

MICHAEL
There is no such thing as a real name.

ARCHIVIST
What are you talking about?

MICHAEL
I am talking about myself. It’s not something I’m used to doing, so I’m sorry if I’m not very good at it.

ARCHIVIST
You decided to appear down here and… stab me anyway!

MICHAEL
I wanted to talk to you. I intervened, to save you before. I, I’m interested in what happens now.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well, thank you for that, I suppose… And you still haven’t told me why you “intervened” at all. [huff]

MICHAEL
I’m normally neutral, yes. But the loss of this place would have unbalanced the struggle too early. I’m keen to see how it progresses.

ARCHIVIST
You make it sound like there’s a… war.

MICHAEL
[heh] Then I will say nothing further. I wouldn’t wish to tarnish your ignorance prematurely. [giggle] Goodbye, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
This - wait -

[SOUND OF CHAIR OR TABLE SCRAPING AGAINST FLOOR; ARCHIVIST YELLS IN PAIN AGAIN, POSSIBLY FROM MOVING TOO QUICKLY]
ARCHIVIST
Ah… owww…

M-Michael? Michael…!?

Ah. End recording.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement about Andrea Nunis regarding a series of encounters in the streets of Genoa, Italy. Original statement given 25th March, 2010, audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London. Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Travel has always been my passion. I remember as a kid my parents used to take us on trips to this small cabin in Wales. I was very young at the time, maybe four or five, and the cabin wasn’t anything special, just cheap self-catering. It was all the holiday that our parents could afford, and I had to share a bunk-bed with my brat of an older brother, but I remember that every time we drove across that huge bridge from England into Wales, I got this rush of discovery, of exploration. Seeing new places, going further, travelling.

I’ve never looked back since.

As I said, my parents didn’t have much money, so the first chance I really had to go beyond the U.K. was when I took a gap year. I’d saved for years to afford that trip, helped by an inheritance from a distant grandmother, and I bought a bunch of interrail train tickets and spent almost four months rolling across Europe, never staying more than a few days in any one place, and heading on as soon as I got bored. There were nights that I was unable to find a hostel and ended up having to sleep on the streets and I even slept in a graveyard once.

I’d pick up travelling companions for a few days here and there, but for the most part I would spend weeks without speaking my own language. I had adventures and saw wonders, and got into more than a bit of trouble on occasion. It was the happiest I’d ever been.

Since then, travel has always been my main joy in life. I got out of university with a good maths degree, and got a job as a programmer. It’s a life of well-paid drudgery, but I don’t care. Because it means once or twice a year, I can drop everything for a month and disappear somewhere new. The Grand Canyon, the Forbidden City, the Great Barrier Reef. That’s my life. Everything in-between is just the intermission.

I suppose that’s one of the reasons I’ve always had such trouble with romance or even close friendships. I can never take them seriously because they aren’t a part of my “real” life. And in my real life, I travel alone.

I know it’s a lot more dangerous, and people always tell me how lonely it must be, but it really isn’t. There’s a purity to being alone when you travel. You can absorb the places you find yourself in so much better, take in the sights and the smells and the vibrations of a place in a way you just can’t if you have to be mindful of another person’s presence.

It isn’t that I don’t like other people, I do. I just can’t travel properly if I’m with them. My 25th birthday last year, I decided to treat myself to another go at Europe. Obviously, I couldn’t do another four months, but I figured that just the one would let me revisit my favorite spots in the south - Slovenia, Switzerland, Bavaria, Italy, maybe Monaco or bits of southern France.

I’m lucky, as a September birthday makes it pretty much the perfect time for European travel, and for the first weeks I was having a wonderful time. Heading down into Italy and revisiting Venice, Rome, and the beautiful views of San Marino. I avoided going as far south as Naples, which I recall as being a horrible place full of ugly smells and rude people, and instead started travelling north again via Florence.

It was in a Florence hostel that I met Ethan Taylor. Ethan was every inch the Australian traveler, tall and tan with slightly curly dirty blonde hair and a carefree attitude. I’d met literally hundreds just like him in every hostel across the globe. But for some reason, I really hit it off with Ethan in a way I hadn’t with any others of his kind. I think it’s because, when he talked about travelling, he talked about it the same way I did. He wasn’t going around for fun, or because that’s what every Australian does when they reach that age. He travelled because he had to. And like me, he said, he always travelled alone.

We spent a few nights together in the hostel, much to the irritation of the other guests. But as much as I enjoyed his company, I didn’t have any interest in travelling with him for long, and it seemed he felt the same way. It was with a sort of mutual unspoken discomfort that we found ourselves ending up on the same train heading north. It seemed like it would’ve been rude not to at least not acknowledge each other, so we sat in the same compartment and stared out the window.

It was alright, actually. Each lost in our thoughts as the Italian countryside rolled past. We’d been travelling for about two hours when Ethan looked over and asked me if I was planning to stop in Genoa. I said no, it wasn’t a place I’d really considered visiting, and Ethan began to tell me about it. He’d been there a few years before, he said, and the coastline was beautiful, all clear blue ocean and narrow, winding lanes. I didn’t have any other plans, so I said sure. And you know what? He was right. It was beautiful. The colorful houses climbing up the steep streets from the coast and the paths beside the sea.

The first day we stepped off the train I fell a little bit in love with Genoa. We checked into a hostel and for once decided to get a private room and dropped our backpacks from tired shoulders. We didn’t need to say anything to know we’d be exploring the city on our own. Ethan would be revisiting cherished memories, and I would be discovering new ones. But neither of us wanted to do so in company. Most of our time together was spent at night, dining, talking, or… otherwise engaged.

The first morning, I went for a long walk along the coast. The sea air was invigorating. And when the salt-tinged air sent cool fingers running through my hair, I felt so alive I nearly wept. I put all thoughts of returning to my dull, English life from my mind and relished my freedom.

There were a few others walking near me, but Italian is one of the few languages I’ve never managed to pick up even a small amount of, so their conversation was alien to me, and did not intrude on my precious isolation. As Ethan and I talked that night, I tried to put it into words, but without any real success. Even here, with the time to compose it properly, I’m still not sure I’ve caught the essence of what I felt.

Ethan, for his part, had told me of his explorations of the back streets of Genoa. He’d found himself in a small section of town that seemed older than the rest, he said, and unlike the rest of it, it was bustling. He suspected there might’ve been an out-of-the-way street market there, and was hoping to find it again tomorrow. Then we went to bed, and I got what may have been my last restful night.

The next day, I decided to find a nice local cafe and spend some time reading. It wasn’t difficult to do, as, if there’s one thing it’s easy to find in Italy, it’s coffee. This one was well-hidden and warmer than outside, even though the day was very hot for the time of year. I took a seat and ordered a coffee. I tried to read, but it was so warm that even with the strong coffee in my hand, I found it hard to keep my eyes open and kept nodding off. It was after one such accidental nap that I saw him.

He was pale, scrawny almost, and looked utterly out of place. His loose, bright shirt was in stark contrast to his long, black hair. He was staring at me in a way I found quite uncomfortable. I mean, I know I’m not unattractive and I’m used to creepy guys staring at me sometimes, but this was different. He was staring at me with an air of concentration. Like he was trying to read something written very small on my forehead.

After about a minute of this, he got up and walked over to me. He took the seat opposite and sat down. He was still staring at me, and it became clear that I was going to have to start the conversation. So I asked him who the hell he was and what the hell he wanted.

He ignored the first question completely and said, in English, what he wanted was to have a nice holiday in peace. He said it in a really accusatory way, like I was ruining his holiday somehow, and I said so. He sighed and said that he wasn’t in the business of helping strays and, well, I didn’t know what help he was offering and I certainly didn’t ask for it, so I got up to leave.

He apologized grudgingly and said that as he was here, he thought he should at least let me know that I was marked. He didn’t know what by, but that it was close.

Was I married? Did I have a fiance, partner, friends? I told him no, not really. I was just about sick of his stupid questions, but he sounded oddly desperate. Siblings? No. Mother? Of course I had a mother. Were we close, did I love her? I gave him a look and he again asked if we were close. I said yes, we were very close. And then I got up to leave.

As I left, I heard him call after me, telling me to remember my mother, to keep her face in my mind. I didn’t reply.

Ethan didn’t return to the hostel that night. At first, I assumed he was simply out drinking late, but as evening turned into night and that night turned into morning, I started to get a little worried. It was none of my business, of course, but Genoa wasn’t an all-night party sort of town. I would’ve assumed he’d maybe just headed on without me, but his backpack was still in our room, untouched.

I wanted to dismiss it as paranoia, but my encounter with the weirdo in the cafe had left me a bit rattled. When the sun came up on the third day in Genoa without any sign of Ethan, I decided to go out and look for him.

My first move was to try and locate that street market he’d mentioned. Perhaps it wasn’t just hidden away, perhaps it had been actually illegal, and he’d gotten caught up in something he shouldn’t have. He’d given me a good idea of the rough area of Genoa it’d been in, so I started my search there. I found nothing. Asking around just yielded a barrage of confused Italian from passers-by who I couldn’t talk to.

So, I just kept walking. Morning turned into afternoon and the previously sunny day became overcast and oppressive. I would occasionally half-heartedly shout out Ethan’s name, though I don’t know what I was expecting.

At first this got me annoyed shouts from nearby windows, then glares, and eventually they got no response at all. The streets I was walking were narrower and narrower, and the houses and buildings next to me seemed to get taller with each turning I made, their previously vibrant colors muted under the cloudy sky. The afternoon was completely silent.

I began to think ‘how long has it been since I saw another person?’ Twenty minutes? An hour? Two hours? I hadn’t checked my watch, and my mind was foggy- it was hard to think in all the humidity. I went to take a drink from my water bottle to find it empty - had I finished it? I couldn’t have been searching that long.

Then I heard it from up ahead. The dull murmuring of a crowd of people, that rolling babble of incomprehensible noise that only comes from dozens of voices talking at once. Relief washed over me and I headed towards the noise.

The street I was heading towards was wider than those that I’d just been walking and seemed better lit somehow. Best of all I could see a constant flow of people travelling down it in both directions. Perhaps this was the street market Ethan had mentioned. I stumbled out into it and began to look around. I couldn’t see any stalls or shops, or anything that might explain the presence of so many people, but I didn’t have time to really think about it before they started bumping into me.

It didn’t seem deliberate, but there were so many people, far more than I had thought at first, and they couldn’t move without jostling or pushing me. The flow of people dragged me this way and that and I was surrounded by that noise, that mumbling noise of the crowd.

Now I was inside, though, I realized it wasn’t Italian being spoken, or English, or any other language I recognized. The more I listened, the more I realized it wasn’t a language. There were no words, it was just noise. Just a noise being made by the people around me. And I started to focus on those people. And that’s when I began to scream.

Their faces were a blur, each and every one of them. It was like someone had recorded them screaming or having a seizure, and then played it back at a hundred times the speed on their face. None of them had hair or any distinguishing marks, and though their clothes were different, they were all different versions of the same clothes.

I tried to talk to them or to shout, to scream at them, but there was no reaction. I tried to push, to punch, or kick them, but they were pressed in too tight, and I couldn’t do anything except get buffeted this way and that by them.

This crowd of people, they weren’t people. It was just a crowd. A crowd without any people in it, and I was still completely alone. It was then that, as I felt my grip begin to slide, and I worried that I would lose myself to the crowd forever, that the words of that strange man in the coffee shop came to my mind.

Think of your mother. And I did. I thought of her face, the smell of her perfume, the long rambling phone calls made whenever we got the chance. I closed my eyes and remembered in as much detail and with as much love as I could muster in my despair.

I didn’t notice when the bodies around me stopped pushing, or when the droning sound of the crowd stopped. Eventually, I opened my eyes again. It was night and I was on a street I didn’t recognize, with an old Italian couple staring at me like I had gone mad. It took me another hour to find my way back to the hostel. And I made sure I was always in sight of at least one other person.

I didn’t search for Ethan any further. I had as much of an answer as I was going to get, and left his backpack in the hostel in case he ever made it back to collect. I doubt he did.

I cut my travels short after that, came back by as direct a route as I could, and spent some time at my mother’s house. I haven’t been travelling since, but I have some time off coming up and would like to head out again. I might see if I can find a friend to come with me, though. I think it might be awhile before I’m ready to travel on my own again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

An interesting encounter, though difficult to follow up given its location. Sasha arranged a supplementary interview with Ms. Nunis, who reports she has recently started travelling alone again and has not had any further problems. Martin has confirmed that over the last decade, there have been several travellers reported missing in Genoa, but averaged out, no more than is normal for a city of its size. I don’t quite know whether this means that few travellers go missing in Genoa, or that a lot of travellers go missing everywhere else.

I’m curious about this coffee shop stranger Ms. Nunis met. His description puts me in mind of Gerard Keay, though there isn’t much to it. If it is him, then he must’ve taken this trip shortly after he was acquitted of his mother’s murder. Fleeing the country for a while, perhaps? Maybe there were rumors of a Leitner in Genoa. Maybe he was genuinely on holiday. No way to tell without more detail.

I am sure of the accuracy of this statement in one area, however. Tim managed to get in contact with the Manina hostel in Genoa, and they confirmed that just over six years ago, they had a backpack logged in the lost-and-found under the name E. Taylor. It was never claimed.

End recording.

SUPPLEMENTAL
Michael’s visit last week has been playing on my mind. What struggle is he talking about, and if there is one, what’s his stake in it? What even is he?

Listening back over his visit, I am also struck by something that in the confusion of his arrival completely passed me by the first time. His words were a warning that I cannot trust Sasha. That she was lying about something. Of course it has become raptly apparent in my investigation that I can trust nobody.

But of all of them, Sasha seemed the least suspicious. I can’t find any evidence she ever even met Gertrude. And her working here seems the natural progression of a lifelong interest in the paranormal. She’s been doing her work with the same diligence as before the Prentiss incident, and indeed, of all of them, seemed to have been the least affected.

That said, she did lose the tape documenting her experience. Or is she lying about her meeting with Michael, leaving things out? Or is Michael simply messing with my head, as indeed seemed to be the entire purpose of his visit?

On another note, I need to be subtler in my inquiries. Here follows a recording I managed to make of a short meeting Elias requested -

ELIAS (RECORDED)
I don’t enjoy having to have these meetings, Jon, you know I don’t.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
Well, I’m sorry you’re compelled to. I assume you’ve had another complaint.

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Yes.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
Who from this time? Was Dr. Elliot offended I declined to take his apple? Was I too rude to Michael?

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Who’s Michael? No, it’s from your team.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
What?

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Martin and Tim both approached me. Apparently you’ve been spying on them.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
Spying on them? Of course not - No, it’s just… I’ve been… worried about their mental health following Prentiss’ attack, so I’ve been keeping a closer eye on them than usual.

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Tim says you were watching his house.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
I - Well, that’s just not true.

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Well, what matters is your team thinks that it could be. Look, I - I know finding Gertrude’s body hit you hard, I understand, but you need to leave this alone. It isn’t their mental health that’s under scrutiny right now.

ARCHIVIST (RECORDED)
Fine. Is that all?

ELIAS (RECORDED)
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
I need to be more careful about the others noticing my investigations. Especially if I’ve further cause to watch their homes. More importantly, though, I think Elias just moved to the top of my suspect list. I wonder what he’s hiding.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Gregory Pryor regarding his investigations into one Hector Laredo during the summer of 2007. Original statement given March the 11th 2008; audio recording by Jonathan Sims head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins:

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
You don’t mind me drinking in here do you? No, of course you don’t. Bet half the guys roll in here leaking scotch all over your precious paperwork. I’m sober enough to write it down for now at least, and that’s all the matters to you isn’t it?

I’m a private investigator. It used to be police but not anymore. None of your business why - you can draw your own conclusions if you want, but it’s not something I care to talk about.

Anyway, last June I got a job from one Nicola Laredo. She was the wife of a lowlife by the name of Hector Laredo, and was keen to change that to ex-wife - except that there was some kind of prenup in the mix and she was looking to catch him cheating, which is where I came in.

Standard stuff, pretty boring really but it keeps the wolf from the door my first investigations didn’t turn not much. Checking Hector online was pointless; if he owned a computer it wasn’t for hooking up or making friends. Impersonating him to the phone company was also a waste of time - only numbers he called regularly were his brother, his wife and the Chinese takeaway at the end of his road. Lazy ass.

I reckoned he had a second mobile but couldn’t find any obvious paper trail for it, so I decided to take my investigation to the next stage. I began to tail him.

Hector was exactly the kind of guy I always end up following; heading into middle-age with nothing to show for it but half a head of hair and a beer belly straining against work shirts that always have some kind of food or sweat stain proudly on display. A loser.

I know I’m not one to talk but I couldn’t help sympathizing with the wife, not just because she was the one paying me.

Hector worked IT for some shipping and delivery company, with this admin center down in Liverpool Street. I say he worked there but that could easily be a lie. Even though I wasn’t able to get past the front desk, the sheer number of smoke breaks Hector took out front cast some serious doubts on whether he was doing his job at all.

According to wife Nicola, Hector had recently had a sudden series of ‘working late’ nights, and based on what I was seeing of him at the day job she was right on the money with her suspicions. There was no way this guy was staying a minute past closing.

Sure enough, hanging around his office I saw him shuffling out the building shortly after 6:00. I started shadowing him carefully, although after a few minutes it became clear that I really didn’t need to be cautious as all that. The man was completely oblivious to anything that wasn’t inside his own head, or in front of his face, and after a while I found I could walk literally 15 feet behind him the whole way and he had no idea.

I knew I was in luck when I saw him head into the underground. His route home should have taken him down the central line, but instead he headed on to the Hammersmith & City riding East. Whatever or whoever his illicit liaisons involved, I was pretty sure that me and my camera were following him right to it.

He got off the train at Barking, which was promising. It was exactly the sort of place I would have expected the lover of someone like Hector to live - residential, depressing and cheap, for London at least.

It was almost 7 o’clock by this point, and it was late June so there was still a while before nightfall, and I got more careful about my pursuit. There were less people here so blending into a crowd was no longer an option, and I made sure to keep a bit more distance as he walked down streets of terraced houses.

We’d been walking for about 20 minutes when I began to realize that he wasn’t going into any of the houses. Instead he made his way south until he reached the A13. He made his way over the motorway, now choked with commuter traffic, and headed down into what looked like a warehouse or industrial estate on River Road.

I was becoming less and less convinced that this was a simple screwing-around job, which made me uneasy, but it was still a long way from scaring me off. Besides, I was curious, so I followed Hector over the A13 and down River Road. I was going very slowly now, as I was the only one walking down that road except for Hector, and if he turned around, well, idiot that he was, I don’t think even he could have failed to spot me.

So I stayed close to the buildings and ducked behind them whenever I could. I’ll be the first to admit I’m not as fit as I was back when I was on the force, but I was still quick enough to keep up with Hector’s slow meandering pace. After another five minutes he reached a warehouse with a for sale sign on it. there was nothing else notable or distinctive about the place, and the sign looked like it’d been up for years.

I spotted a small hole in the decaying concrete wall that divided it from the adjacent lot, and made for it. Through the hole I watched as Hector stopped and, for the first time, looked behind him. When he saw nobody and nodded like he was congratulating himself on a job well done, I almost laughed so hard I nearly gave myself away.

Hector checked his watch clearly waiting for someone and put down his briefcase. It was only then I realized how odd it was that an IT tech would carry an old fashioned leather briefcase to work.

Still, I didn’t have much time to wonder about it before a red SUV pulled up, and two white guys in tracksuits got out and started heading towards Hector. I couldn’t make out what they were saying but I was snapping pictures anyway.

I had a pretty good idea as to what was going on and I was not at all surprised when they handed Hector a brown envelope obviously full of money. In return he opened the briefcase to show a tight white brick before snapping it closed again and handing it over.

I took plenty more pictures before slipping away unnoticed. Drugs complicated matters, but not necessarily in a bad way. Theoretically pictures of the crime could get Nicola out of her doomed marriage just as quick as any sleazy snapshots, and if I played my cards right I could even make a good bonus out of him myself in the form of some hush money.

Blackmail is an ugly word, but it does pay the bills. given how bad Hector was at spotting me it was only a matter of time before he was behind bars, so I might as well get some use out of that sweet drug money before it was taken by the courts.

I mean, he took the briefcase to work for God’s sake. The trick was going to be making sure that Hector wasn’t connected in a way that would make this difficult. From what I could see he was pretty low rung, and expendable enough that a bit of blackmail wouldn’t piss off any of the bigger fish trafficking what looked to be heroin.

Still, drug dealers and their bosses can be unpredictable, so I decided to keep watching the poor slob for a while to make sure I wasn’t going to be stepping on the wrong toes. So for the next week I watched Hector all day, every day, and I can confidently say that he was the worst drug mule I’ve ever come across.

I knew some real screw-ups back in my police days, but nothing that even came close to Hector Laredo. I genuinely had no idea how he ended up working for these guys, who I eventually pegged as Ukrainian mafia.

I suppose he did look like the last person you’d suspect of running drugs, but that was the only thing he had going for him. in addition to being unbelievably oblivious, he was also sloppy and forgetful. I once watched him leave the suitcase, drugs and all, on his front porch for three hours in broad daylight before he remembered and came back for it.

Ironically, I didn’t actually see him lose the drugs. I needed to use the bathroom in a coffee shop I’d followed him to and when I got out he’d moved on. Sometime in the two hours it took me to find him again, he’d managed to put the suitcase down and forget it. It was gone.

I saw realization across his face as he began to panic. This was bad news for both of us, worse for him of course, but it did mean that I wouldn’t be making my bonus. I followed him a while longer out of morbid curiosity and watched as he tried to explain himself to the Ukrainians.

I expected anger, a beating, maybe even a murder right then and there, but instead they just exchanged a look, mumbled a few words to Hector and handed him a small slip of paper. Then they drove away,

Hector looked at the paper, typed something into his phone and threw it away as he walked off. it was an address in Stockwell and an instruction: ask for Jared.

I didn’t follow him that time. I was pretty sure they’d just handed the poor idiot a death sentence, and when Nicola called the next day to say Hector hadn’t come home I was sure. At this point I came clean to her about her husband’s activities, although I did lie about the timings to make it seem like I’d only just discovered about the drugs. No need for her to know why it kept it to myself. When I told her about the loss and the note, she sat down, clearly trying to process everything.

She didn’t seem particularly broken up over the fact that her husband was most likely dead, something that was quickly confirmed when she started moving on to talking about savings and life insurance.

That’s when I should have taken my payment and gone. If I hadn’t gotten greedier I’d still have my arm. I was all set to leave when Nicola asked me how long I thought it was going to be before they found a body.

Stupidly, I said that if the Ukrainians were any good there probably wouldn’t be a body to find. At this, Nichola seemed to panic slightly, asking a lot of questions about missing persons and being declared legally dead without a body, which is a long drawn-out headache. She clearly didn’t want to wait and asked me to try and find some evidence that Hector was dead.

I said no, of course. Then she named a price that – well, let’s just say Hector Laredo’s life insurance policy must have been a hell of a thing. Even at the time I knew I was making the wrong decision but, that much money… I said yes.

So the next day I found myself in Stockwell, at the address listed on the note, staring at a butcher’s shop. No name was written over the front, but the display of chilled carcasses and slabs of meat and the window made it perfectly clear what it was.

I started to wonder if the Ukrainian mafia was involved in some full-on Sweeney Todd body disposal, but quickly reminded myself that even if – and it was a big if – they were killing and disposing of bodies there it didn’t mean they were selling the meat to the public. That would be a massive and unnecessary risk, and organized crime wasn’t big on unnecessary risk.

It was a sunny day, and the smell of the hot tarmac mixed with the odor of raw meat that drifted from the door. It had a closed sign displayed prominently despite the time of morning, and there were no interior lights on.

I couldn’t see anything inside except the old poorly refrigerated meat hanging in the window, dripping silently onto the trays below. I reminded myself how much money was on the line and tried the handle.

To my surprise it was unlocked. I slipped inside the shadowed storefront before anyone spotted me. The smell was rancid, but not as strong as I had expected. a quick glance around the place told me why; aside from the window display the room was devoid of meat. In fact there didn’t seem too much there at all, aside from a refrigerated counter and drinks cooler. Both sat empty.

I waited and listened, prepared to bolt through the door at the slightest sound but it was quiet. I gathered myself and made my way around the counter to open the door into the back.

I was keeping an eye out for anything that might have given a hint as to Hector’s fate. as soon as I had proof I was gone.

The door to the back opened with a puff of air like there was a change of pressure. I noticed how thick the steel door was, even the glass porthole of the top seemed a few inches. It was only later I realized it must have been soundproofed.

The room behind it was lit by several bright fluorescent bulbs on the ceiling and walls and, much as I suspected, looked closer to a morgue or an operating theater than a butcher’s shop despite the well kept and razor sharp tools hanging on a nearby rack. There were several large lockers along one wall, a steel chair in the corner and, though there were no stainless steel drawers, the tarpaulin covered shape that lay awkwardly on the central table was disconcertingly familiar.

I took a breath and pulled back the plastic sheet. Hector Laredo lay there on the table.

He was naked, utterly still, though he seemed to be in one piece his skin had the sickly pallor of a corpse. I sighed, relieved at this discovery which, from my perspective, was about the best result I could have hoped for.

I spent a minute or two taking pictures for Nicola and headed back towards the door, and that’s when everything started to go horribly wrong.

When I reached the doorway back into the shop front, I took a second to glance through the window and I froze.

in the entrance to the shop stood a huge hulking silhouette. It reached to push it open. I staggered back into the room looking for another way out. There was only one other door apparently into the rest of the building, but it was firmly locked and I didn’t have time to try and get through.

Without any other options, I covered Hector back over with the tarpaulin, opened one of the lockers and squeezed myself inside.

Luckily for me they were large and didn’t seem to have any shelves. I stepped on something soft and looking down saw a rough pile of clothes at my feet.

I didn’t have time to consider this before I saw the door begin to open; I had to shut myself in. I stood there in the dark, trying not to make a sound as I heard heavy footfalls approach, and the door to the room slammed shut. From my position I could just about see out through the vents in the locker, and I very much hoped the huge guy now strapping on an apron could not see in.

He was immense, almost seven feet tall, with thick limbs that looked like they had been badly carved out of lumpy rock. Even his head was massive but there, like everywhere, his skin was on show. It bulged slightly when he moved, hard bumps forming and stretching his skin in odd places. Was this the Jerrod mentioned in the note?

He pulled back the tarpaulin covering Hector’s body, and cracked his knuckles. I don’t think I’ll ever forget the sound of him doing that.

Then, he reached into Hector. No cutting, no saws, he just reached in. And I realized why the room was soundproofed, because it turned out Hector wasn’t dead.

It was going to be a while before Jared got around to his lungs or throat. Jared pulled out what appeared to be a handful of ribs. He considered them for a few months before he began to twist them like warm putty, making them into some sort of braid. He considered his handiwork silently as Hector lay screaming on the table before he shook his head and walked towards my locker.

For a terrible moment I was sure he was gonna wrench open the lock and pull me out, but instead he grabbed a crowbar that had been resting against the wall leave it up one of the metal floor tiles. From where I was standing, I could see there was a hole underneath that seemed to disappear deep into the ground.

There was something not right about that hole. The texture of the walls was too smooth to be earth, and it seemed to glisten wetly. It was when I saw the teeth that studded the inside of the fleshy throat that I realized what I was looking at, and I choked back a scream.

Jared casually tossed the bones he had been twisting inside, and they disappeared into the dark opening without a sound.

And so it went on for four grueling hours. After the first Hector wasn’t conscious enough to scream anymore, but Jared continued to bend and warp him, occasionally pulling bits out and throwing them into the pit. Once I even saw him take one of Hector’s femurs and, after twisting it into a corkscrew spiral he reached into his own torso, and left it there with a sigh of contentment.

At last Hector died, and I almost wept with relief. Jared sighed in what sounded like disappointment and then wrenched the butcher tools from the wall. It took another half hour to fully dismembered the corpse, tossing each piece into the pit when it was small enough, and hosing the blood down into it.

He removed his apron, walked to the chair and sat down. His movements were sluggish now, uncoordinated almost like he was drunk.

Once in the chair his huge frame slumped forward and his eyes closed. It looked like he was asleep. I should have waited longer, should have made sure he was fast asleep, but I was close to breaking point at this stage and I could think of nothing but escape.

I opened the locker and walked quickly, silently over to the door and opened it. as I did so, the gentle sounds of the street at night filtered through from the shop front.

Compared to the grim silence of the butcher’s workshop it was beautiful. at least, it was until an ambulance roared past siren blaring at full volume. I heard a roar from behind me and turned to see Jared charging towards me.

It was like a strange, lumpy freight train bearing down on me. I tried to close the door but I was too slow. Just before it slammed shut he grabbed my arm and tried to pull me back.

There is no way to describe what it feels like to have bone pulled out of you through your unbroken skin. If you’ve ever been stabbed or had a decent sized object embedded in you, maybe you can remember how it felt to have it removed, but even then the pain is of a different quality. The nerves aren’t being torn or cut they’re being pushed aside like water imagine the feeling of removing a rubber glove from your hand, but you’re the glove, not the hand. And it hurts like the worst toothache you can imagine it that’s as close as I can get to putting it into words.

I slammed the door shut and ran into the street, through the people still wandering Stockwell in the evening and away, my now empty left arm hanging limply by my side. I didn’t stop running for a very long time.

I guess in many ways it was a happy ending. The photos combined with what the police found when they raided the butcher’s shop were enough to declare Hector dead even without the body, and I got my payday from Nicola Laredo.

They never did find Jared though. He was long gone when they arrived the doctors amputated the arm in the end, and I’m getting used to the prosthetic but I can still feel it sometimes like it’s still there.

I know it’s just phantom limb syndrome but sometimes I swear it feels like my bone’s still out there, twisting in someone else’s arm.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I don’t think it’s unreasonable to assume this butcher to be Jared Hopworth. It seems that if Mr. Adekoya’s account from statement 9991006 is accurate, then Hopworth has found new ways to profit from his abilities in the eight years since his acquisition of the Boneturner’s Tale.

The book itself is conspicuously absent from this account, though it may simply mean Hopworth no longer needs to keep it with him.

No idea about the pit, though. That’s new.

Its description puts me in mind of some of the more meaty statements but there isn’t enough evidence to make any direct connections. Mr. Pryor was unavailable for a follow-up interview as he emigrated to New Zealand in 2013 following a four year jail term for tax evasion. He seems to have largely dropped off the map.

Nicola Laredo confirmed the basic details of the job she had given to Mr. Pryor, although she was unaware of any of the more gruesome aspects of her husband’s murder. At least she was until Martin interviewed her. I should warn Elias to expect another complaint.

The police aspect of this statement has been the hardest to follow up. Sasha has recently been having problems with her normal backdoor access to police records. as despite IT’s best efforts her computer has broken yet again, making this the third time in the last two months.

Until we can source some more reliable equipment we may have to rely on other methods.

Basira has refused to compromise her position any further so we’re having to rely on Tim’s involvement with certain staff at the police records office apparently he has involved both with one of the young ladies there, as well as the gentleman who manages the other shift.

This is useful for acquiring information, but I am uncomfortable with how easily discovered this arrangement might be. The last thing I want is for the archives to become involved in pointless personal drama.

Still, he has managed to get copies of the appropriate files. The police did raid the butcher shop following Mr. Pryor’s report but found no one there. It had apparently been abandoned, shortly before they found articles of clothing belonging to roughly 14 people, five of whom could be tied to active missing persons cases.

They did tear up the floor in the end, but rather than any sort of pit they found the body of one Harry Gough, the registered owner of the business. He had apparently been dead for six months.

Jared Hopworth remains at large.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

Elias Bouchard is a difficult man to pin down. Certainly since he became head of the Institute in 1996, taking over from James Wright, who ran the place from 73 until he passed away.

It was a remarkably fast climb to the top as from what I can find, it looks like he only joined the Institute five years before in 1991, working in the artifact storage. Perhaps he was simply that impressive. Certainly the Elias I know now is almost unmatched in terms of paranormal knowledge, well, theoretical knowledge, at least. And yet everything I found out about his life before the Institute seems an ill fit with the austere man I know.

He apparently graduated with a third from Christchurch college in PPE and I found an old gossip column in the student newspaper that mentioned him. If I’m not reading too much into it, the implication seems to be that he was something of a pothead.

Was he like that when he first came to work? Here the difficulty comes from the fact that the only person in the Institute who worked here before he took over was Gertrude. Did he kill her because she knew something about his past? And if so, how can I prove it?

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sampson Kempthorne, regarding the workhouse architecture of George Gilbert Scott. Original statement given June 12th, 1841. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST
Dear Jonah,

It is my fondest wish that this message should find you in good health, as I have heard more than one mutual acquaintance remark on your current state of overwork. While I earnestly hope it is merely idle gossip, my knowledge of your character leads me to entreat that you allow yourself some respite, or at the very least take some further secretarial staff into your employ. Certain uncharitable quarters would have it that your life consists of little but rattling around an Edinburgh townhouse, surrounded by piles of ghostly accounts and lunatic documentation. Piles, I am afraid to say, to which I am about to make an addition.

I would suggest you come visit with myself and Marianne as a diversion, but if you were of a mind to do so, you must travel swiftly. You see, we are shortly to depart for New Zealand, there to start a new life, far from London and its workhouses. And it is this imminent departure that has had such a freeing effect upon my pen. For there are things I have seen which I feel deserve a place among your asylum of letters.

They regard the works of my former assistant, George Gilbert Scott, whose own architectural practice is now most respected. I have been fearful that accusations of slander might dog me, were my tale to be set down, but with a boat to the new world beckoning, and your sterling reputation for discretion, I feel it may at last be time to divest myself of the disquieting scenes I have witnessed.

George came to me in 1834 from his engagement with the office of Henry Roberts, where he was completing his training. Henry himself I have the greatest respect for, as he trained under Sir Robert Smirke, who had received his knighthood not two years previous. Henry was very effusive about the talents and prospects of young Mr. Scott, and was at great pains to inform me that his young protege also received certain architectural tutelages from Sir Robert himself.

He said this with the oddest of looks, as though there was some jolly secret between us. I rather just nodded, as if to say I took his meaning, and he left well enough alone. He even showed me George’s work on drafting his plans for the Fishmonger’s Hall near London Bridge, which had opened to great acclaim. It certainly seemed clear to me that he would make a fine assistant, at least for as long as I were able to keep him.

And so we began our brief collaboration, the subject of which was the workhouse, a topic - as I’m sure you recall - very close to my heart. The plight of the poor and destitute has been a national disgrace for far too long, and when I was handed the task of designing them by the Poor Law Commissioners, it was an undertaking I embarked on with no small amount of zeal.

My original designs were intended to assist in the easy segregation of inmates by sex, age, or infirmity, with capacity and utility foremost in my mind. I know many look on the workhouse with disdain, calling it “the Pauper’s Bastille,” and seeing very little distinction between the workhouse and the prison, but this is a deeply myopic view to take. The prison keeps its population for the safety and improvement of society at large, while the workhouse exists for the improvement of the inmates themselves. To criticize the conditions as harsh is to overlook the basic moral imperative of work itself, and I firmly believe that to dismiss the punitive as a valid form of moral improvement is to consign many a poor soul to perdition… but I digress, Jonah. I am so used to penning defenses of my designs that it seems I can write little which does not do so.

It was in his assistance with these designs that George first began to show those peculiarities of character that I would become so ill-at-ease with. His process redrafting was… deeply unsettling. He would spend hours in the office simply staring at the drawings, saying nothing, taking no food or drink, ignoring any inquiry or interruption. Then, in a single move, he would gather up all the papers and retire to his private office, locking the door behind him.

Then from the other side that firm oak door, I would hear the strangest sounds, muttering and shouting. It was always in George’s voice alone. I could never quite discern the words. It often sounded as though he were in some great distress, and on more than one occasion I was within minutes of summoning a constable to assist in breaking through the door, when he would emerge, glistening from exertion and holding completely redone drawings. I’m sure I even saw blood on his collar once.

The designs themselves were little better. He would take the solid functionality of my original plans, and remake them in all sorts of odd symmetries, which, while architecturally intriguing, generally sacrificed many practical considerations.

He also, without fail, made everything closer. Passageways would be narrowed, and sleeping quarters shrunk, until a building designed to hold 300 paupers would be remade to house almost twice that number.

As I mentioned before, I have no objection to harsh conditions within the workhouse, to dissuade the idle from taking residence there, but the cramped plans that George would present me bordered upon the claustrophobic, and I was generally unable to use them.

Each time I told him so, his face would tighten in momentary anger, and his lips would go white. Then I would watch as he took that rage and discarded it, once again becoming the genial, if somewhat serious, young man I had first met. It was an odd sight.

When his father died in 1834, it came as no great surprise to me that he chose to resign from my service. He told me he considered it necessary to become the provider for his family, though I have my suspicions he was also eager to no longer have his designs subject to my scrutiny. I wished him well, naturally, but could not honestly say I was not somewhat relieved by his departure.

It was shortly after this I received an invitation to a small social gathering hosted by Henry Roberts. It was there that I met Sir Robert Smirke. He was a tall man, with sharp, almost saturnine features, and eyes that seemed to regard you in ratios, and pounds of raw material. He was polite and gregarious, but I found him difficult to talk to at length, as he seemed to be forever further ahead in the conversation than I was. I could never be sure whether or not I was boring him.

When I realized that George was not present, and there was no sign of his imminent arrival, I resolved to raise the matter with Sir Robert, regarding what exactly his tutelage had entailed. At the mention of the name “George Gilbert Scott,” Sir Robert’s face flushed suddenly with anger, in a manner not entirely unlike that of his protege.

He asked me what my interest was in Mr. Scott, and I told him that he had, until recently, been engaged as my assistant. At this, Robert gave a small laugh of satisfaction, and told me I did not realize exactly how lucky an escape I may have had. I asked again what exactly his training had entailed, and Sir Robert stared at me for a silent minute before he finally nodded his head.

“Balance,” he told me. “Equilibrium. The hardest thing for an architect to achieve. Symmetry is easy, but does not, in and of itself, result in balance. To stir the feelings of man, to create a small place of being divorced from the rest of the world, while still retaining that balance, is the true goal of the architect.”

I had never heard my profession talked off with such conviction and fire before, and I will not lie to you, Jonah: the look in his eyes when he spoke scared me.

Without prompting, his tirade continued, and he began to talk about George, about shortcuts and symmetry, and a patron that the young fool did not understand.

I could follow very little of it, and it seemed to be decidedly removed from anything that I would consider architecture, but whatever it was that Sir Robert had been teaching George, it appeared the lessons had been put to less-noble use than he had intended.

It was at this point that Henry noticed Sir Robert’s agitation from across the room, and came over to gently usher him away to the smoking-room. He sent me a glance of mild reproach as he led his mentor away, and I was left standing there in the middle of the room, utterly confused, and rather shaken.

I resolved to avoid where possible having anything further to do with George, and continued with my own works. I heard he had set himself up with construction of workhouses according to his own designs. He had taken on a partner by the name of William Bonython Moffatt, a builder’s son with no moral character to recommend him of any sort. They vigorously canvassed several district guardians, and managed to acquire several commissions that had previously been mine.

Needless to say, I was rather taken aback by this utter lack of professional etiquette. But I was not without other projects, so I endeavored to ignore it, and leave him to whatever squalid internments he cared to build.

It was in September of ‘36 that it happened, shortly after George and Moffat had finally opened the first of their workhouses. I didn’t realize that was what had happened until afterwards, ensconced as I had been in my own work.

Darkness had fallen, and still I was busy, lit by the reassuring glow of a dozen candles. There was no clock in the workshop, a deliberate choice, to stop the lateness of the hour disturbing me, but I suspect it to been somewhere past midnight when I heard them.

Footsteps. Heavy, thudding footsteps, and the click-clack of a sturdy cane. My assistants had locked all the doors when they left for the evening, and through the silence of my study, I could not have missed the sound of them opening again. To my dying day, Jonah, I will aver that no one entered the building before I heard the footsteps approach.

As their heavy tread grew closer, and the clack of that cane struck louder, with a quiet malice, I heard another sound beneath them: the jangle of keys.

I have never in all of my life been possessed by such a fear as I was then. The walls and floor seemed to rise towards me, stealing the air from my lungs until I swear that I could feel the splinters from the ceiling digging into the soft skin of my face. I couldn’t move as the thudding boot tread came to a halt outside the door, and the cane came to rest with a final clack.

I waited. I waited to have the last vestiges of life squeezed from me by whatever this was. I don’t know how much time passed. And then, as though suddenly sloughing off a heavy cloak, the weight fell from me. The room returned to its natural proportions, which is to say, it… never truly changed. I think. It is hard to describe exactly, Jonah, so you will forgive my vagaries.

I rose to my feet and, in a moment of foolhardy bravery that I doubt I shall ever truly understand, I grabbed a candle and ran to the door, flinging it open. I saw a figure walking away, through the door to one of the clerks’ offices. It was short and wide, and I could see the wood of the floor bow beneath its huge boots. It wore a tall black hat, and only the thinnest wisps of gray hair were visible below. In its coarse, ruddy hand it held a hard-worn black cane, tipped with iron.

Then the door closed behind it, and it was gone. I followed into the room behind it, but it was empty. There was no sign of the man, or whatever it was, that had gone in before me. The window was sealed, and there was nowhere for someone of that size to hide. Still, I searched. I wasn’t sure what else to do. Even the heavy bootprints seemed to have vanished.

What I did manage to find, however, fallen behind one of the writing desks, was one of George Gilbert Scott’s workhouse designs. There is, of course, no way to be certain of any connection between the two events, but that did little to quell the scalding rage in my breast as I strode out of my door the next morning. I took a cab to George’s office, where I was informed that he was at his workhouse site with Moffat, and took another cab.

I found the site in a state of some commotion, with my former assistant standing next to a high stone wall, arguing with a labourer, who seemed quite distraught. He was gesturing wildly at an area of the wall, while another man, who I assumed to be Moffat, tried to calm him down.

As I approached, I began to make out what the labourer was saying. He was asking after someone he referred to as “the governor.” While Moffat was trying very patiently to explain that no governor had yet been appointed to the workhouse, the labourer didn’t seem to be paying this point much mind. However, he kept repeating that the governor had come to see Harry. He did not say who Harry was, but I assume an acquaintance of his.

He said he knew it was the governor because of the jangle of his keys. He said that the governor had called Harry “idle.” It was at this point I was finally close enough to see the wall he was pointing at with such excitement. At first, I thought they were worms, small and pale against the brickwork. But as I got closer I saw them clearly. Extending from the unblemished solid stone of the workhouse wall were four fingertips.

The labourer repeated it again: the governor had called Harry “idle.”

I returned George’s documents and left.

I trust you will understand now, Jonah, why I have been avoiding the company of my fellows these last few years. I have always been reluctant to make any notation of my story, but now that I finally have everything prepared for my move to New Zealand, I would feel like I had slighted you, had I left without sharing my tale. Do with it as you will; I am done with it.

Sincerely yours,

Sampson Kempthorne.

ARCHIVIST
End statement.

Obviously, trying to trace disappearances and deaths in Victorian workhouses is an exercise in futility, so I’m loathe to even try.

More importantly, who is Robert Smirke? I have read every book I can find on the man, which is, admittedly, not many, and none of them show any sign of this other side to him, apparently at the heart of strange buildings and architecture all over London.

And now what? Students, apprentices? If Henry Roberts was a student of some sort of paranormal construction methods, it doesn’t appear to show up in any of his buildings - save perhaps for Fishmongers’ Hall, which he designed along with Sir George Gilbert Scott for the Worshipful Company of Fishmongers in 1834. It is reportedly a hotbed for low-key hauntings, but nothing of the magnitude we’ve heard from others.

Scott is concerning, however. While Smirke seems to have built a handful of notable buildings around London, Sir George Gilbert Scott is responsible for landmarks such as Saint Pancras Station, the Albert Memorial and the restoration of Westminster Abbey. If his buildings have similar quirks, then… let’s be honest, I don’t know what that would mean. But I doubt it would be good.

That said, there have been no reports of any sort of paranormal or supernatural disturbance in any still-standing building designed by Scott. That should made me feel better, but somehow it doesn’t.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
- I, I’m sorry?

TIM
Are you in trouble?

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure what you mean.

TIM
Well, there was a policewoman asking after you. You know, the one who came to look into Gertrude.

ARCHIVIST
Basira. Where is - when was this?

TIM
Uh, yesterday. You were physical therapy.

ARCHIVIST
Did she say why?

TIM
No. It was a bit weird, really. I’ve seen her around here a few times before actually. I, um. I don’t trust her.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, what?

TIM
Well, I asked if she had anything new to report on Gertrude, and she just said no, and then mumbled a question about when you’d be back. Then she left. It was weird. She’s weird.

ARCHIVIST
You don’t have a problem with the police, do you, Tim?

TIM
Well, you do know I’m the finest cat burglar in all of Bromley.

ARCHIVIST
Tim.

TIM
Okay, so seriously, I don’t get why she keeps coming back ‘round here outside of the investigation.

ARCHIVIST
She’s, uhhh. I’m, I’m helping her with some of the investigation. Off the record.

TIM
Oh.

Ohhh.

Say no more!

ARCHIVIST
Tim, wh-what are you -

TIM
Don’t worry, I’m cool. Good work, boss.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! No, Tim, that’s not what I - it’s really not like that -

TIM
[speaking over him] I’ll go see if I can dig anything else out on Scott, and I’ll let you know if she comes back.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
That really isn’t what -

[sigh] End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Antonia Haley, regarding a deep dive that took place near Sable Island Nova Scotia in August 2006. Original statement given January 7th 2008. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I should be dead, really. It’s a weird feeling. You ever had a near-death experience? I’ve had a few they’re not uncommon in my line of work, but this… it feels different. It’s not that I put myself in danger and managed not to die, I should be dead. Decompression sickness that severe is almost never survivable and I should have had an embolism. The fact that I didn’t? Blind luck. It’s hard to reconcile yourself with avoiding a death that you feel should have been yours. If there’d been others with me who didn’t make it, if I could write it off as survivor’s guilt… but I was alone. Do you ever get that? Of course you don’t, sorry.

Anyway, I’m not here to talk about the bends. I’m a diver, both by nature and by trade. I grew up in Halifax, Nova Scotia and was swimming almost before I was walking. I did my first scuba dive at 8 years old; it was barely deeper than a swimming pool but it was enough to instill a lifelong passion for it. I got fully qualified as soon as I was legally able and almost flunked out of college because I was always running off to some dive or other. I must have missed more classes than I went to by the end. I scraped by, but as it turned out even if I hadn’t it wouldn’t have mattered too much, as it wasn’t my psychology major that got me my first job after graduation. It was diving.

I worked at a marine salvage company based off the coast of Nova Scotia. You’ll forgive me if I don’t give their name, I still hold out hope I might go back to work there someday and I’d feel like an asshole dragging their name through the mud, even if it is just to you and your strict confidentiality procedures. If you’re desperate, they shouldn’t be hard to identify, but it’s not really relevant to what happened.

You ever heard of the graveyard of the Atlantic? Probably not and it’s a confusing name anyway since it actually refers to two distinct locations along the eastern coast of North America, both notorious hotspots for shipwrecks. In this case I’m talking about the one of Sable Island in Nova Scotia. The waters there are some of the roughest where the Gulf Stream hits the Labrador Current, and depending on which historical records you believe there could be anything from four to six hundred shipwrecks down there. And that’s only from when the European settlers first arrived. Normally it’s not the sort of place where we would accept jobs. It’s too dangerous to send a salvage crew in when the water’s that unpredictable, but this time was different. Maybe the old man was just a real sweet talker or maybe he swept the captain, a leathery old cuss by the name of Morten Kemp, just enough extra under the table that he fudged the location on the release forms. Either way word came down that we were doing a dive off Sable Island.

None of that was to say the captain was stupid about it. We kept a very close eye on the meteorological reports and only headed into the graveyard when we were certain or we’d have a window of relatively calm seas to do it. It helped that the job was relatively simple. The old man, Simon Fairchild, had come to us claiming that he had pinpointed the location he believed his great-grandfather’s sailing yacht had been sunk almost 120 years ago, and he was keen to retrieve any heirlooms or curios he could from it. The only thing interesting or unusual about his story was the amount of money he was willing to throw around to back it up. It was certainly enough to get us dropping anchor a hundred miles from the coast on a hot sunny morning at the end of August.

The journey out had been a bit subdued normally me and Julio Hernandez, the other diver on the crew, would spend our time chatting, playing cards, and once even screwing, though we generally don’t talk about that. This time we had to babysit Mr. Fairchild, who had stubbornly insisted that he make the journey with us. Again, this wouldn’t normally have been an option but the guy was not shy about throwing his money around. He must have been pushing a hundred years old, just a tiny pink skeleton of a man sat in the corner watching us the whole trip. It was hard to get any sort of friendly chat going him perched there like some sort of vulture. I tried to talk to him a few times but he only seemed interested in discussing this shipwreck and how preserved I thought everything might be. I told him I had no idea, it really wasn’t my area, I was just the diver. He didn’t say much to me after that.

When we hit the graveyard the sea was almost completely still, far more so than I would have expected even given the weather predictions we’d been working on. It didn’t strike me as odd at the time, just an unexpected bit of help with the job. Initial checks managed to locate a wreck that seemed to match the old man’s description, a steam yacht circa 1890. It seems to be in surprisingly good shape and in the camera’s torch light we could just about make out the name - the Maria Fairchild. The old man was practically dancing with joy and I was genuinely concerned he might give himself a heart attack.

We suited up and prepared to go under. The wreck was at a depth of 160 feet, which meant we’d be in a high-pressure environment, but we shouldn’t need hypoxic gas or full pressure suits, which was something of a relief. Julio made his prayers captain Kemp gave us a stern nod, and into the water we went. As I went in I thought I heard Simon, the old man, shout after me but I couldn’t make it out. And then the world was nothing but silent blue. I had expected the water to be warmer given the temperature on the surface but the chill hit me all at once and it took a moment to get to grips with it. I saw Julio next to me a few yards away and with a thumbs up we began to dive down towards the sunken boat.

Most people don’t appreciate how quickly it gets dark underwater. You don’t need to be nearly as deep as you think before the sun is just the faintest change in the water hues. If you’re not careful it’s easy to forget which way is up and become lost in the murky depths. But Julio and I were a well-practiced team, and we weren’t going so far down us to face any darkness that our torches couldn’t handle. It was during that descent when I saw that our two points of light were the only signs of movement down there. That I noticed the absence of life. I wasn’t particularly worried by this, if anything I was rather relieved. Anyone who’s been diving more than a few years will be able to tell you of at least one close call with a shark and I’d had two so far, so the less removed the better as far as I was concerned. Still, it was a surprise that we haven’t seen even a single school of fish on our journey to the seafloor, and once we were down there it was just as lifeless. I gestured my confusion to julio but he just shrugged and started over towards the wreck.

Down there deep below the surface I find myself sometimes entering an almost… Meditative state. You can feel the weight of the world, a world you were never meant to be part of pressing in on you from all directions, and the constant overpowering awareness of your own breathing, of how little there is between you and the very space around you that is completely hostile to your existence. The danger is real, as is the faint hardened fear in your gut, butI’ve always found that it sometimes put me in a state not too unlike how it feels staring into the flames of a fire - hypnotic. My mind cleared of all thoughts but the dull pulsing rush of adrenaline. That feeling was so strong here that I almost swam past the Maria Fairchild completely.

Julio was already inside and I quickly located a large enough tear in the hull and made my own entrance. The yacht was bigger than I had thought when viewing it from the boat but the layout was not complicated, and we already had quite a good idea about where would be best to look for the sort of antiques and sentimental treasures that Simon wanted. Julio had taken the bedroom so I started on the bridge. It was certainly an impressive sight - a late 19th century steam yacht slightly decayed from its time on the ocean floor but, all-in-all astoundingly well-preserved. I looked over the chair in the various panels and controls, but could find nothing which could be classed as an easily removable heirloom, although I did make a mental note of which bits of the bridge were well enough preserved they might be worth removing. It would need more equipment than we had with us, but I could suggest it to Simon if we returned empty-handed.

I checked in on Julio but he was still busy ransacking the bedroom so I decided to do sweep at the engine room. It was there I found the hole. It was large, maybe seven feet in diameter, not unlike the one I had used to get into the wreck in the first place. There was something about it that immediately put me on edge. The shape was too regular somehow, the water outside it was… Too dark. And it took me a few seconds to notice this, but the direction of the tearing seemed to indicate it had been made from the inside out. I dropped the rusted wrench I had been examining and let it float slowly towards the floor as I made my way to the hole. I groped to the side and looked through.

As soon as I put my head through I felt a change wash over me. The pressure increased all at once becoming so intense that I screamed in surprise, in pain, as my head erupted in agony. The pressure was upon my whole body now, and I was finding it hard to move with the crushing weight on every part of me. My eyes bulged as I stared forward and I saw two things. The first was that below the hole there was no seafloor, just a deep and endless expanse of empty water, as though the boat were on a cliff edge. The second was that it was far, far too dark. The deepest that humans can survive in the ocean is the mesopelagic zone, which begins roughly 650 feet below the surface. It is colloquially known among oceanographers is the Twilight Zone, as it is the level where only the faintest of light penetrates from the sun, and the water can only be seen in the many shades of darkness. Down that far, any glow that makes it is so diffused as to be utterly useless in determining which way is up. But as I stared out in terror I was absolutely sure that there was no up.

I could swim as far as I liked, there would never be anything but water. Then I saw it.

It was only a shadow in the dark but it was there. And it was huge. It stretched from one side of my vision to the other, and as I fought against the pressure to turn my aching head I still couldn’t see the end of it. Only its blurred outline was slightly better contrasted against the lighter shade of the twilight water that surrounded it. I could not see the ends of it. It was so big it made me lightheaded to think about it to try and place myself in some believable scale against it. I think it was a hand, but I could not see enough to be sure. Then it moved, slowly but clearly, and I realized how far away it still was as it got bigger and bigger and bigger, and I could see nothing else and I screamed.

It was the jagged metal of the hole itself that saved me in the end. As I cried out in horror I felt the sharp edges of it digging into my hands and they gripped it, and the unexpected burst of pain snapped me out of whatever it was that held me in place. With a surge of strength I pushed myself back into the boat. I felt the pressure lift all at once. Of course, this brought its own set of problems but I didn’t care. The lightheadedness was already setting in and my vision was blurry when I swam out of the sunken ship and headed towards the surface at full speed, ignoring all decompression procedures. I blacked out thirty feet from the surface. I have vague memories of the trip back, fading in and out of consciousness, feeling the worst I have ever felt in my life. Then I recall a helicopter shouting and finally waking up fully in a hospital bed. Captain Kemp was there and he immediately laid into me, calling me all sorts of horrendous names before informing me exactly how serious my condition had been and how lucky I was to be alive. I should be dead, he told me, and I know he was right.

I left the company soon afterwards. I still planned to go back someday but it’ll be a while longer before I’m comfortable in the water again. Julio never came to visit me in-hospital and I was unable to get in contact with him after I was discharged. I hope he’s all right.

I did ask captain Kemp what happened to the job after I left as I also hadn’t seen the old man since that morning. The captain got a strange look in his eyes then, and gazed out of the window with a scowl I had never seen on his face before.

“The sea is a dangerous place,” he said, and walked away.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends no real follow-up can be made to this statement, as it all took place in Canadian territory. We don’t have the contacts over there that we do here. Not to mention that what little I could glean appears to be a mass of overlapping and conflicting police coastguard and Port Authority reports. We could spend years trying to unravel this one case if we had a mind to, and I for one do not.

We weren’t even able to beam sufficient information to track down any of those mentioned in the statement. Aside from captain Morten Kemp, who now runs boat tours near Winnipeg and declined to comment on it in the strongest possible terms, instead I will focus on Simon Fairchild who I recall may have come up in case 0022010, along with a young woman I may have encountered Fairchild before or it may just be a coincidence of names. One of my first cases as a researcher for the Institute in 2012 was looking into the history of a jewelers in Hackney that have reported cases becoming cracked in the night. Nothing was ever taken, but each morning it would be like a heavy weight had been dropped upon them. Looking into it, it turned out that the jewels had in the 1930s belongs to a con artist and fence who had attracted the displeasure of the local population. When one particularly irate customer threw him out of a fourth floor window into a crowded street at midday, no one claimed to have seen anything.

A minor possible haunting with the decidedly pedestrian backstory, but notable because while I was never able to discover the original name of the con artist, one of his many, many aliases was Simon Fairchild, and it appeared on several business listings around the time. Whether it’s a coincidence or not is something of a moot point at this stage, however. A cursory bit of research reveals the Fairchilds in question to be an exceptionally wealthy family based down in Cornwall. No real business to speak of, but it appears they’ve invested very wisely in aerospace technology, shipping logistics, and underwater drilling and construction.

Whatever their origin I feel it’s worth keeping an eye on them.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental. Had a strange conversation with Sasha earlier today. I have been doing some research into her, but there’s little to go on, save that she worked in Artefact Storage.

I decided to pay it a short visit to acquaint myself with any new acquisitions. Not much worth reporting, really: a new oak wardrobe that light is apparently unable to penetrate; a carved rock eye they keep in a black velvet bag, apparently it interferes with the video cameras otherwise; and a rather nasty-looking scalpel that is supposedly rife with the disease no matter what they used to sterilize or disinfect it. That one’s kept in a hermetically sealed plastic box.

I stumbled across Sasha staring at that damn table again. Luckily, I had the wherewithal to bring my tape recorder and managed to turn it on unnoticed.

Recording follows.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
It’s fascinating, isn’t it? In the literal sense, I mean.

NOT!SASHA
Yes. Sometimes I can’t pull myself away from it.

ARCHIVIST
Given recent events, I…I’ve been trying to figure out if it’s a fractal.

NOT!SASHA
No… No, it isn’t. I’ve always seen it more like a web?

ARCHIVIST
(huh) I guess it has caught us, in its own way.

NOT!SASHA
I don’t think we’re the first to be caught.

ARCHIVIST
No?

NOT!SASHA
I believe it caught Graham as well.

ARCHIVIST
I thought that was… I… Whatever crawled through his window. Unless you think they’re linked somehow?

NOT!SASHA
I doubt it. It didn’t sound like the sort of thing that would want to be bound to an object.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose. And we haven’t seen any long-limbed stalkers, so… Let’s concentrate on the table.

NOT!SASHA
Degrees. If you’ll excuse me?

ARCHIVIST
Of course.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Odd, but not alarming. Though I think I may discuss restricting her access to the table with Elias. Oh - and I found out where she’s been going when she takes extra-long lunch breaks. It seems harmless enough, but I admit I’m a bit baffled.

Every few days, she travels up to Baker Street, to spend anywhere from 10 minutes to a full hour in Madame Tussaud’s Wax Museum.

End supplement.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Philip Brown, regarding his time working at HMP Wakefield between 1990 and 2002.

Original statement given April 9, 2004.

Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
How much do you know about the prison service?

Not much, I’d bet.

Maybe you’ve seen a few prison movies, think you know a bit about how it is in there. You’ve got to keep face and watch your back, right? After all, you never know who’s got a shiv with your name on it.

Well for a start, you’re probably thinking of American movies about American prisons, and I can’t speak to that. Maybe it is non-stop gang warfare over there. But in my experience, the biggest danger in a prison is and always will be boredom.

I say that like it’s some glib observation, but we work hard to keep it as boring as possible. The first hint of violence among the inmates gets smacked down. I worked as a prison officer in Her Majesty’s Prison Wakefield, or “The Monster Mansion”, as the press insists on calling it. It houses the real scum of this country. Class-A dangers, the lot of them, and it was always a point of pride to me that we kept that place quiet.

I mean, I say it like I had any real power, but I was just a grunt keeping an eye on a cage full of wild animals. I won’t even pretend I was proportional in my use of force. I mean, prison inspector would have been over that with me already, but the sort of things you have to have done to end up in Wakefield – well.

Let’s just say the suicide attempts far outnumbered the murder attempts.

And I never lost any sleep over that fact. Not at any of the inmates, I made sure of that.

After lockup at 7:00 p.m. sharp I made a point of keeping my wing dark and quiet. It helped that they were single cells of course, no worries about conversational violence between cellmates. But even then, I was careful to make it very clear that drawing my attention after lights-out was something they would regret.

I’ll admit, I was a real bastard when I worked there. Sometimes you need a bastard to keep an eye on the monsters. And back then I really thought that the murderous filth we were looking after were the closest thing this world had to real monsters.

I was wrong, of course.

I’d been working there for almost five years when Robert Montauk came to us. Now don’t get me wrong, we’ve had plenty of celebrity criminals passed through Wakefield over the years, but I can’t say it didn’t give me a slight chill to know that we were going to be keeping watch over the most prolific British serial killer of all time.

I mean, he killed 40 people, that’s a ridiculous number. I mean, maybe not in America where you have so many places to hide, but his nearest competition in this country barely reached half that, and he used to be a policeman. All told, you have the ingredients for a cocktail of posturing unrest and violence among certain quarters of the inmates.

He wouldn’t normally have gone to Wakefield as his crimes had no sexual element to them, but we were the only ones that had space for a prisoner needing that level of security and scrutiny.

He was a big guy. I wasn’t expecting that, to be honest. Usually with that kind of prisoner they’ve got her “you’d never know to look at them” sort of feeling, but Montauk looked like a killer. He must have been almost six foot six and built like a barge. His dark hair was cropped close to his scalp showing off a flat angular face.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the man was terrifying. When he entered the rec room for the first time, I could almost hear the deflating egos as a dozen would-be hoodlums thought better of trying to make a reputation by standing up to Robert Montauk.

Of course there’s always one and in this case it was Ivan Ilich, an aspiring Serbian gangster who decided to go after him, jumping him from the side.

Me and the other wardens had been waiting for something like this, but we were too slow to get there in time. Well, maybe we could have gone faster, but 40 murders… sometimes you want to look at what you’re up against.

Ilich was not a small man and nearly matched Montauk in height if not in weight, but there was an energy to Montauk – a tightness like a rubber band about to snap.

Ilich leapt forward with a shout and delivered a solid punch right into the other man’s kidneys, but it was as though he’d hit the pressure pad on a bear trap. With terrifying speed the hands snapped round, gripping the Serbian’s right arm.

There was a half moment of complete silence as everyone seemed to be holding their breath to see what Robert Montauk did next.

He brought his hands around with a violent twist, cleanly dislocating his assailants arm with a nasty pop, replacing the silence with a scream and a string of Slavic curse words. At this point me and the other screws broke it up. I got the unenviable task of taking the still-cursing Ivan Ilich own to get his arm treated.

I didn’t see Montauk again for some time. After that little incident he was immediately transferred over to F-block where he wasn’t going to be a danger to anyone but himself.

I’d occasionally hear rumors about him filtering through the other inmates, and there wasn’t a spooky story in Wakefield that didn’t have him at the center of it. Barely a week went by without some loudmouth nobody spreading word that he’d killed the guard or escaped, or been found dead in his cell with his heart ripped out.

It was never true of course. Not at that point.

I think most of it came from Dave Harrington on F-wing. He always loved to drop the fake gossip on new inmates and the old hands knew not to trust a word he said. It was 1998 when –

[DOOR OPENS]
ARCHIVIST
Hello?

BASIRA
Hey, I just wanted to–

ARCHIVIST
Oh, hold on.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Sorry, can’t be too careful. Accidentally mentioned you won one of my earlier official recordings, and had to go back over it.

BASIRA
Oh, sure. I’ve got another tape for you.

ARCHIVIST
Fantastic. Here’s the other one.

BASIRA
Was there anything on it?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, very much so. A Russian circus that – oh. But, uh, nothing relevant to Gertrude’s murder if that’s what you mean.

BASIRA
That is what I mean.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Sorry.

Have you had a chance to listen to any of them yourself?

BASIRA
Well the precincts has exactly one tape player, and it exploded when I tried to put batteries in it. Put in a requisition for a new one, but that’s lost somewhere in the Met, and I haven’t had a chance to chase it up, so no.

ARCHIVIST
Well, if you keep bringing them to me –

BASIRA
It’s better than nothing, yeah. Anyway, I thought you could try this one next.

ARCHIVIST
Alexandria?

BASIRA
Hey, at least this one actually has a label. I figured you’re probably into old libraries and stuff –

ARCHIVIST
No, you’re right. Thank you, Basira. Honest.

BASIRA
Yeah. Oh, what’s the name of that helper of yours?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, Martin.

BASIRA
No, no, the hot one. He has scars like you but kind of manages to pull them off –

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Tim.

BASIRA
Yeah, what’s his deal? He gave me the weirdest grin when I came in just now and like… the thumbs up?

ARCHIVIST
I… I wouldn’t worry about it.

BASIRA
No?

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] …he thinks we’re sort of… together?

BASIRA
Oh – Oh. Oh no. You know I’m no –

ARCHIVIST
Yeah I know, me neither, he just got it in his head –

BASIRA
– I mean you’re nice and all –

ARCHIVIST
– yes – yes, no, I feel the same way.

BASIRA
Right. I mean, I suppose it’s better he think that?

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] I won’t tell if you want.

BASIRA
Right. I’m… gonna go then.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes.

[DOOR SHUTS]
Right.

[CLEARS THROAT]
Statement resumes.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It was in 1998 that I next came into regular contact with Robert Montauk.

The government had commissioned the construction of close supervision centers in prisons all over the country, and Wakefield was one of the flagship initiatives.

A good portion of F-wing was given over to our own CSC, soon to be known as the exceptional risk unit. It could only hold eight prisoners but they were to be the worst of the worst, kept under constant scrutiny and given no chance to harm anyone.

I was picked to be one of the officers transferred into the new unit. I don’t know if it was specifically because I had more inmate altercations on my record than any other prison officer at Wakefield, but given the intensity of the setup I’m sure it didn’t hurt my application.

Robert Montauk was an obvious choice for the exceptional risk unit. During his time in Wakefield he had been involved in several further violent incidents, and though he hadn’t yet killed anyone inside the prison, the higher-ups reckoned it was only a matter of time so in he went.

The CSC was not a nice place. Wakefield had had the budget to make it secure, but not to make it anything less than starkly utilitarian. The individual cells were cramped and claustrophobic, with almost no natural light filtering in from the outside. Oh, they still got their exercise but it was in bare metal cages.

We kept them separated from each other almost as much as we kept them from the rest of the prison. You must never underestimate how violent and desperate a trapped animal can become.

We were cruel to them, I’m not ashamed of that. If I were to tell you all the crimes of those monsters we kept in the EIU, you’d probably lose your lunch before I was halfway through the list. Keeping them beat down was the only way to make sure they behaved, and besides atonement is important.

I’ll admit though, I always had a soft spot for Robert Montauk. He never gave us any trouble. Away from the other prisoners he seemed too docile, almost eerily so sometimes.

Also – and it’s a small thing – but he never denied his crimes. Wakefield is one of those prisons where everyone is innocent and it gets so dull to hear their whining protestations day after day. Anyone who fully owned their crimes always went up in my estimation.

I mean we still beat him down on occasion, but not as bad as the others. After a year or two I kind of started to forget who he was, you know? The mystique of being Britain’s most successful serial killer just didn’t hold up when you have someone in your power like that. You forget any respect you might have had for them. And he never gave us any trouble.

In 2001 he started to get visitors, his daughter mostly.

Given that she hadn’t visited before, I’d guess she just turned 18. You get that a lot. Unaccompanied visits aren’t allowed under that age and plenty of inmates have kids living with overprotective guardians who refused to take them. So I assumed she was similar.

The visitor rooms in the main prison are quite nice, not so much in the exceptional risk unit. The dark, bare room like all of them, cut down the middle with a reinforced window. There were plenty of lights in there but somehow it always seemed gloomy.

I was on observation for a few of their father-daughter visits. She would talk about her life like her dad wasn’t a murderer, he would lie about how it wasn’t too bad in the prison, it was all very touching I’m sure.

Aside from his daughter there was only one other time that he had a visitor. It was six months before he died, late March 2002.

He was an older guy, I’d guess late 50s, wearing a well-tailored black suit and an expression of disgust.

When I brought Montauk, in his face fell and he went very pale. I’d help folks beat Robert Montauk a dozen times or more but I had never seen him look scared.

He sat down opposite the old man and they looked each other in the eye through the thick glass.

I think the visitor might have been blind. His eyes were cloudy but he had no cane or dog, and it didn’t seem to affect how he looked at Montauk.

Neither of them spoke.

The seconds turned into minutes and still they didn’t say a word. They just sat there, staring. Given where I work, it’s really something to be able to say that I’ve never seen two people who hated each other as much as Robert Montauk and that old man.

After a few minutes I was all but ready to drag him out but as I stepped forward the lights blew, all of them at once, leaving us in the dark.

I had Pete Gordo, the warden with me on visitor duty, fumbling for the handle on the door to get help or torches.

I was tense, ready to fight off Montauk if he decided to make a move, but instead a soft voice came from out of the darkness. I didn’t recognize it but I thought it sounded like it came from the old man. I don’t think he was talking to me.

“You didn’t think you could kill it for long, did you?”

That’s what it said.

Then Pete got the door open and a shaft of light poured in from the corridor.

I could once again see Montauk and the old man, sat there, motionless.

It didn’t seem like they’d moved an inch. Though as I went to take Montauk back to his cell I noticed that he was crying.

I didn’t mention it. I’ll be honest, I was kind of freaked out by the whole thing.

The next few months were quiet. Montauk seemed even more subdued than normal and often had to be goaded into exercising during his allotted time. The only point where he seemed normal was when his daughter came for her visits, and maybe that was just because he was already so used to lying to her.

That was the summer we had all the plumbing problems in the ERU, and the water kept going foul, so we were all kind of on edge.

But nothing really happened until it turned to autumn and November rolled around.

It was November the 1st. I remember because the date was read out so many damn times at the assorted disciplinaries that followed. The worst part of it is, I wasn’t even doing anything wrong that day.

I was working the late shift with Pete and we were having coffee in the break room. At least, I was having coffee.

Pete was swearing at the taps because the plumbing problem we had all had been assured was fixed was back and worse than ever. The taps were disgorging a jet of foul-smelling stagnant water.

I was laughing at him sipping my own perfectly adequate drink, when all the lights went off. It was more widespread than last time though. It seemed like the electricity had gone off altogether.

We stood there in the pitch-black waiting for the generator to kick in, or for whatever power problem this was to be fixed, but after a few minutes of silence and darkness it became clear that that wasn’t happening anytime soon.

In the distance we could hear the prisoners of the exceptional risk unit start to shout and holler. Their cells were locked, of course, there was nothing a power cut could do about that. But it was still up to us to keep order until the lights came back.

I had hoped that the other prison officers on shift would have come by to pick us up, but they were clearly busy elsewhere.

I called out to Pete, making sure he was still nearby as I fumbled in the locker for my torch. I finally found it and turned it on. The beam was so bright in the oppressive darkness that I had to blink away tears.

Using the light from mine, Pete found his own flashlight and together we headed out into the CSC.

We checked each cell in turn, lying to the prisoners inside about when the power would be back and sending them back to their beds with threats of violence. I didn’t see any of the other wardens around and was starting to get really nervous. When we had checked all the other cells, we went towards Robert Montauk’s.

The torch beams shot out in front of us, but as they fell upon the door to his cell, something was wrong.

I wasn’t quite sure what I was looking at for a second, and then I realized that his cell door was open but the torch light wasn’t reaching the inside.

As it hit the threshold it just stopped, a clear and distinct line of darkness beyond which nothing could be seen. From inside there came the wet sound of tearing and a low moan of pain.

I wanted to run, but instead I took a step forward.

My torch died. Pete’s went off as well and we just stood there, terrified, unable to see a thing.

The sounds were no longer coming from inside the cell and that didn’t really as much as it might have.

About 15 feet behind me I heard Pete fumbling around, calling out my name. I was about to reply, tell him to stay where he was, when I heard something that froze my blood.

Pete said, “There you are.”

He was not touching me.

Almost immediately there was a growl from the darkness. It was throaty in a roar, but at the same time sounded almost musical. He screamed. I heard him fall to the floor.

It was at that moment that the lights came back on.

We were alone.

I ran to do a quick circuit of the CSC that the other prison officers arrived, but there was no one else there. Apparently there’d been some problems with the doors and they hadn’t been able to get to the main ERU cells.

Pete was on the ground when I returned, though he seemed physically unharmed.

It was one of the other wardens that found what was left of Robert Montauk.

I took the fall for it.

They didn’t try to make out like I had killed him, just that it had happened on my watch and due to my negligence. They’d been trying to push me out ever since the prison inspector had written the CSC up for excessive use of force the year before.

They really threw the book at me. “Gross incompetence.” It’s a bitter phrase to say out loud. What was I supposed to tell them, a monster made of darkness murdered him?

Pete was no help. He handed in his notice two hours after the lights came back on. I didn’t even get a chance to speak to him asked what had happened, he was just gone.

I don’t really have anything more to say about it. It was a clearly paranormal incident that led to the end of my career and it’s not fair.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Prison records are very hard to acquire for the Close Supervision Center, due to the small number of inmates held there. Most information could be considered identifying, so the prison service tends to hide behind data protection laws when asked about them.

Beyond that many of the prison records from before the mid-2000s have still not been digitized, making followup on this hard.

Tim hit something of a dead end trying to look up Pete Gordo, though Sasha did manage to track down the 2002 visitor logs for the whole of Wakefield prison. It took some searching but I managed to find what I believe to be the entry for the visit from Mr. Brown’s mysterious old man. The name given is Maxwell Rainer.

Martin hasn’t had much luck tracking down Mr. Brown himself. According to Caroline Brodie, his ex-wife, she left him in 2004 after his dismissal from the prison service pushed him further into alcoholism and he became abusive. She says she got a single letter from him in 2009 asking for reconciliation but she never replied.

Martin says the letter was postmarked from Waterford in Ireland but he’s been unable to track Mr. Brown any further.

So what is this thing if it seems to obstruct Robert Montauk through so much of his life, and what’s its connection to Rayner? Were they summoning it, containing it, worshipping it?

Whatever the case it seems as though Montauk earned its anger.

I feel it might be worthwhile getting a few more torches for the Archive.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I confronted Sasha about the wax museum. It was just too strange to not mention. I tried to pass it off like I had spotted her accidentally while in the area for other reasons. I doubt she bought it, but she did at least give me an answer.

She has a new boyfriend, or so she claims, who works there and she likes to get lunch with him. It is plausible, and at this stage I feel challenging her to produce said boyfriend would potentially damage what trust remains between us.

No luck with any of my other leads yet, but at least I have another of Gertrude’s tapes. It’s always going to be a shot in the dark with them, but hopefully an informative one. I know the secret to her death is on one of them. It must be.

I just… I hope I don’t have to hear it firsthand.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Are you quite recovered?

WALTER
Yes, I, I think so. Well enough to tell my story, at least.

GERTRUDE
Oh, good.

Sergeant Walter Heller recording, regarding a discovery made near Alexandria during Operation Crusader in November of 1941. Recording date 5th of September, 1997.

Anytime you’re ready.

WALTER
Right. Where do you want me to start?

GERTRUDE
Well, you say you were serving in North Africa when it happened?

WALTER
Yes, I was with the Second Royal Gloucestershire Hussars. We weren’t even meant to be down in Libya, originally, but when the pushback against Rommel started, the whole brigade was reassigned. We were going to help with Operation Crusader. Well, that was fine by me, my brother Frances had died at Arras when the Germans had pushed through the year before. Rommel has been in command there, as well, and I hated him for it. I knew I’d never get to do anything about it, but I always used to carry an old picture of him I’d clipped from the newspaper, and I made sure to keep it in my pack so I’d know him if ever I saw him again, or just in case.

Well, there were four of us on the tank crew: Frank Malloy was in command, Ralph McCulloch did the driving, and we had a loader by the name of Dicky. I, well, I’m afraid I don’t remember his second name; he wasn’t with us very long. I was the gunner. I’ve always had good eyes, you see, and you really need that for the gun. It’s all very well for Frank to point at a speck on horizon and give us the order to fire, but I’m the one that needs to line up the shot close to a mile away, and turn a Nazi tank into a smouldering brick before they can do the same to us.

I was good at it. Though I managed to get three M13/40s when the fighting started. I would have liked to have a crack at the Panzer, but it was the Italians who caught up with us at Bir el Gubi, so I never had a chance. Maybe it was just as well, by all accounts, the Germans had a lot more training, so maybe it would have gone even worse for us. But I still hated having to waste time on the Italians, when I knew Rommel and his Panzers were out there and a desert somewhere.

It was all a bit of a mess, to be honest, that battle. Our air support were meant to have bombed their airfields to rubble, but weather had kept them grounded, so we were hounded by German planes the whole time. The Italians had unsurprisingly taken a page out of Rommel’s handbook, and they backed up their tanks with heavier infantry support, while we were left almost entirely on our own.

Frank took to the machine-gun when he could keep it pinned down, but it was hard enough to keep our eyes on the enemy tanks without constantly having to worry about a Panzerfaust coming out of you from nowhere. We were still in the Crusader Mark 1s back then, so we had the speed to keep ahead of them, but I was basically useless when we were driving. Any time we stopped long enough for me to get an eye on an Italian tank, we ended up a sitting duck for their infantry. All told, I think taking down three of them was a pretty good effort.

You know, it was hot that day. I hadn’t been in the desert more than a couple of weeks by then, and the sheer heat of the place was still something of a shock. I’m from Cheltenham, you see, so not exactly used to the blazing sun of a Libyan desert. And a Crusader - well, for all its advantages, it didn’t have very much in the way of ventilation, so we were spending a lot of time trapped in what was more or less a mobile oven. Even then, I could just about stand it, but once the fighting got going and the guns started firing, well. It was only a 2-pounder, but still, the heat was almost unbearable.

It was about two hours into the battle that it happened. The gun was now so hot I couldn’t touch it, and I was having to wipe a steady stream of sweat from my eyes every few seconds. The whole desert seemed to swell and sway in the heat haze, but I clearly heard Frank call an order to fire on a tank from the east.

Ralph brought the Crusader to a stop, and I heard poor Dicky call from inside that we were clear to fire, swearing all the time over his burnt fingers. I could see the dark shape of an Italian gun in the distance, and was trying to get the angle right, but my vision was so hazy from the intense heat that it was hard to focus my binoculars properly.

Then I saw it: a flash of light, a twinkling glint of sun from the enemy tank. In the back of my mind, I knew what it meant: the sun reflecting off their own binoculars, which were trained on us, but my head was so foggy that for all the world it seemed as though they were winking at me. I tried to say something to the rest of the crew, but my mouth was too dry, and all that came out was a dull croak. It was strange, but even with the intense sunlight reflecting off that endless expanse of bright desert, I still remember seeing the flash of their gun. I didn’t hear it, though. They always say that don’t they? That you never hear the shot it gets you. Well, I certainly didn’t.

Then I was on the ground with Frank and Ralph standing over me. Ralph was trying to say something, but I couldn’t hear it over the intense ringing in my ears. There was the smell of burning metal, and below it, another scent I couldn’t quite place. I tried to sit up, but there was such an intense shooting pain in my left leg as I did so that did I collapsed again.

A few yards away I could hear our Crusader, smoke pouring from the cracked armor. It surprised me how intact she seemed, until I saw the flames creeping up from the hatch. It was then the ringing in my ears faded enough for me to hear it: the screaming from inside the tank. Dicky was still in there. I looked at my companions, and saw in their faces that they heard it too. There was nothing they could have done to save the poor fool, of course. If, if they had trapped him in there, then, then getting to him would have been impossible, and trying would only have got them killed. So I had to lie there and listen to Dicky roast to death. I don’t know how long it took, but it felt like hours.

At some point, there must have been a retreat ordered, as I saw the rest of the Crusaders pulling back. Frank managed to catch the attention of one of them, and the commander agreed to take me back somewhere the medics could get a look at my leg, although there wasn’t room for us all, so they literally strapped me to the top of the tank, and we drove off, leaving Ralph and Frank to make their own way back.

It wasn’t until I tracked Ralph down almost 10 years later that I found they had been captured soon afterwards, and spent the rest of the war in an Italian POW camp. Oh, the way they described it, it had been quite comfortable, but as far as I knew at the time, we were leaving them to their death. If, if I hadn’t been so delirious in the heat and pain, I might have cried. My memory of the trip back is fragmented, and I have only faint impressions of the pain which every vibration of the tank’s engines sent through my injured leg as I passed in and out of consciousness.

Then there was stillness; shouting. I remember a faint prick in my arm, and then a different sort of haze settled over my mind as numbness and sleep spread through my veins. The next thing I recall with any clarity is my hospital bed. I’d been taken over the border, back to Egypt, and had ended up in the British military hospital in Alexandria. When I awoke, it was so quiet that for a minute I had the sudden, panicked thought that I might be deaf. But it was just that after 70 days of hearing the roar of one engine or another, the peace of an almost empty hospital was so deep and serene that I couldn’t understand it.

When she came round, the nurse was kind enough to inform me that I was one of the first wounded to have returned from Bir el Gubi, but they expected more. Sure enough, over the next few days the ward filled up and my peace slipped away beneath the steady stream of injured soldiers. I didn’t mind too much, as it was still a damn sight better than rolling over the boiling desert in an iron coffin. Not to mention the fact that it turned out I wasn’t going to lose the leg, which is the sort of news to put you in a very good mood. The doctors told me I’d probably always have a limp, as I’m sure you’ve noticed, but it wasn’t infected, and there wasn’t the nerve damage they had been afraid of, so all told it was a pretty good wound to get.

After a few weeks, I was walking on without too much pain, and the nurses advised me to start taking occasional walks around Alexandria. I did so, but between the locals and the army, it was a crowded noisy place, even at night. I took to taking my walks further and further from the hospital and the city centre, and occasionally I’d find myself wondering some way beyond the city limits - at least, as far as my leg would allow. It was still hot, even in late December, but beyond the edge of the city there was a peaceful quiet that I just couldn’t find anywhere else.

It was two days before I was due to return to active duty that it happened. I’d been restless all week, and I couldn’t seem to settle down or focus on anything. Once I got out near Pompey’s Pillar, the crowd seemed to disperse and my mind finally cleared a bit.

I kept walking, though not paying any real attention to my surroundings, until I found myself rather lost. After several hours my leg was starting to ache badly and I took a moment or two to rest against a nearby door. The wood of the door was old and dry, and creaked as I put my weight against it. I didn’t even notice it buckling ‘till it was too late. The next thing I knew I was lying face down a dingy basement, my leg screaming in fresh pain.

It wasn’t broken again, which was a relief, but I still had to sit there for a while recovering from my fall. And nobody seemed to have noticed what had happened, or at least didn’t care, and I took a few moments to look exactly where I was.

The basement looked old, really old. I’m not an expert on Egyptian architecture, but it didn’t look much like the rest of Alexandria. More than that, aside from the now-broken door, there didn’t seem to be any entrance of the place or anything connecting it to the building above. It was dry and cool, and there didn’t seem to be anything else of note, except for an old grate made of brass, or maybe bronze, that I assumed led to the city’s sewer system.

It was as I finally, painfully dragged myself to my feet that I saw it. From somewhere far beyond the grate, as the setting sun fell on it, came the glint of something around and white. It was only for a second, and if I hadn’t spent so long training to spot objects that distance I probably wouldn’t have noticed it, but there was definitely something there.

I approached the metal grate expecting to smell the shore beyond, but instead there came the scent of something else. At that point I had no idea what it was but I would have described it as not unlike wood. I tested the grate and found it came away easily from the floor, leaving a hole large enough to climb through without any problems.

I had taken to keeping a torch on me on my walks, as I sometimes had a tendency to wander too far, and so I’d be walking back in the dark. Shining it into the now-open hole revealed what looked like an old tunnel. Whether it was man-made, a naturally-occurring cave, or somewhere in between I couldn’t say, but it was easily big enough for me to walk down. And once again I saw that glint of pale white a long way down, so I went in.

It was slow going, as my leg was still weak and the floor of the tunnel was not level. I had to crouch at points and place my hands upon the dusty walls for support. After a few minutes I was deep enough that my torch was the only source of light, and the passage began to open up into what seemed to be a large room.

It was there, in a small alcove carved into the wall, that I saw what had caught the light. It was an old papyrus scroll lying amongst the shattered remnants of this case. I cast my torch around and saw more shelves carved into the walls of the chamber, each of which housed the scroll of its own. They were written in the language I didn’t recognize, but they were old and they smelled of age and dry decay.

It wasn’t the only room like that, there were dozens of chambers like it, all different shapes and sizes connected like a Wharram. Some were empty, a handful still had a handful of old scrolls left in alcoves or fallen to the floor. It looked like the place had been looted a long, long, long time ago.

After checking through few rooms I was sure that whatever this was, it must have been a huge archeological find. I really didn’t know who to tell about it, but I knew I needed to tell somebody. As I turned to head back towards the entrance, my torch beam fell upon something dark in an adjoining room.

It was a body. From the looks of it, the corpse had endured a long, long time and the dry air had almost mummified it, leaving a desiccated skin stretched tight over the bony frame. It wore what looked to be the remains of chainmail and a black Karloff Tabard with a pointed white cross emblazoned on the chest. A broken sword lay nearby, now rusted almost into nothing, and as I gazed at the dead man’s face I couldn’t stop a chill running down my spine. I tried to tell myself that it was just the way the skull had warped over the years that made him look like he was screaming. His eyes were gone, but rather than simply decaying into nothingness, there were ragged scratches around the edge of the socket, leaving messy, hollow pits.

I was feeling very afraid now and had just turned around to leave when my torch abruptly turned off. It was the strangest thing. It should have been pitch dark. There was no light that all filtering through into those underground caverns, but it still - I could see everything. Every detail of the shriveled corpse before me was as clear as day. There was no light to see it, I can’t explain it, even really describe how it felt, but it was absolute darkness and I could still see. At the same time I suddenly got the most intense feeling of being watched, like a thousand eyes turned to me at once.

I froze. From somewhere deeper within that strange, ancient library there was a sound of movement. The rustling of cloth, slow rhythmic steps coming toward me. I darted back away towards the tunnel that had brought me there, but it was hard. The sense of being watched was getting stronger, an almost physical weight that seemed to drag me down.

I reached the mouth of the tunnel just as a figure came into view, wearing what looked like the remains of an ancient robe, and in the darkness I could see long spindly fingers stretching, probing toward me. Within its huge, flowing hood, I could see nothing except a single little eye. I don’t know at what point I started screaming, but I know I didn’t stop until I was restrained by military police and fleeing through the streets of Alexandria in the early hours of the morning. I spent another month there undergoing psychiatric evaluation before being discharged.

GERTRUDE
I see. Did you ever locate that basement again?

WALTER
Well, I wanted to, but I was supervised the rest of my time in Alexandria.

GERTRUDE
Did you tell any of your superiors about it?

WALTER
No. I was half convinced I’d dreamt the whole thing up.

GERTRUDE
And did you replace the grate?

WALTER
[stammering] The what?

GERTRUDE
That bronze grate over the entrance to the archive. Did you replace it when you fled?

WALTER
Oh yeah, yes - yes, I think I did.

GERTRUDE
One other thing. That feeling of being watched. Have you ever had it since?

WALTER
Well, I wasn’t sure when to say anything, but yes. I have just now. That funny turn I took on the way down the stairs, I felt it again. All those eyes watching me.

GERTRUDE
Thank you, Walter. Now, I –I need to check some maps with you, but I don’t think we need that on tape. Are you all right here for now?

WALTER
I should be.

GERTRUDE
It’s unlikely to happen, but if anyone else comes down here–

WALTER
I’ll tell them I’m an old friend of yours paying you a visit.

GERTRUDE
Thank you. This statement is off the record and I don’t want anyone to bother you about it further. Let’s keep it between us.

GERTRUDE
Well, that was certainly useful.

It’s taken a long time to track down someone still living who found the Serapeum of Alexandria. It’s not a full confirmation of my theory about ancient iterations of the archive, but I’m certainly feeling validated for pursuing it.

I had been working on the assumption that the great library itself would have fulfilled the function, but it makes a lot more sense that it would have been the Serapeum offshoot. The ruins of the main Serapeum itself near Pompey’s pillar are quite well researched, so this could be the secret caves mentioned in certain accounts of its destruction.

According to Eunapius, the destruction of the Serapeum in 391 AD was conducted by a Christian mob, emboldened by the reforms of Pope Theodosius the First, attempting to drive the worship of other gods from Alexandria. There are other accounts, however, that claimed the scholars barricaded themselves inside with prisoners and retreated to hidden caverns deep below. Some even go so far as to claim the captives were tortured into the worship of pagan deities or offered as blood sacrifices. There’s even one unnamed contemporary historian that describes the moor by tacking the Serapeum not as Christians, but using a phrase which roughly translates as “those who sing the night”.

The corpse found by Mr. Heller would seem to be the remains of a hospitaller knight of the order of St. John, at least based on his description of the Tabard, most likely from the sack of Alexandria in 1365 by Peter the First of Cyprus. While generally grouped in with the rest of the Crusades, it’s generally considered to be one of the few such attacks with no religious motivation. Given this discovery, however, I do wonder if there might have been… other reasons.

Regardless, I have further follow-up of my own to do. My biggest concern right now is whatever creature Mr. Heller encountered down there. It was 56 years ago, but if it’s still alive, I should be careful. What was it? A guardian of some sort? Or perhaps… perhaps… it too was once an archivist.

ARCHIVIST
Well, only two tapes so far and already I… I don’t know what to think.

Another archive, an earlier version. Am I just part of a chain? A long, unending string of people who call themselves “the archivist” stretching back to…

Are we all destined to end up like Gertrude, just following the same path? I need to find out more about her. One thing’s becoming clear, though. She did not trust the Magnus Institute. Something that I concern–

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Was just going down to the cafe, did you want a sandwich?

ARCHIVIST
That depends. Are you are you going to keep hovering around me if I go to the canteen?

MARTIN
I just worry. You needed five stitches after you “accidentally” stabbed yourself with the bread knife. If you’re still claiming that’s what happened–

ARCHIVIST
I am.

MARTIN
– then you’ll forgive me for worrying when you use sharp knives.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I’ll come with. Just give me a second to grab my coat.

MARTIN
Sure.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Mr. Heller died from a stroke in 2004, making followup on this tape difficult. But I’ve found a news article from March 1998, six months after the statement was taken. It reports an explosion in Alexandria which destroyed several buildings in the vicinity of Pompey’s Pillar and killed 17 people. Official investigation determined it to be a gas mains explosion, but… I wonder.

Gertrude Robinson is not who I thought she was.

End supplement.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Alexander Scaplehorn, regarding his evaluation of “The Trophy Room” taxidermists in Barnet.

Original statement given June 23rd, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I try not to judge on appearances.

I have a certain sympathy with those who find themselves instinctively reviled by those about them. Not simply because I myself am what you might generously describe as “odd-looking”, but because my career has taken me down the path of working for the Inland Revenue, and you should see the way people recoil from you when they find out you work for the taxman.

So I try to have a little bit more depth than that and give everyone a chance, so was with what could be described as an aggressively open mind that I made my way to undertake an inspection of The Trophy Room – a taxidermist’s shop near Woodside Park in Barnet.

I have never been in any way attracted to the idea of taxidermy aside from a few interesting examples in the Natural History Museum, but I was quite certain it didn’t deserve its ghoulish reputation. Of course, I was inspecting it to ensure it wasn’t being used for money laundering purposes, so if it turned out it was involved in criminal activity I would be quite justified in any bad opinion, I might care to indulge, but I didn’t want to be premature

You see, the Trophy Room had been a staple of Woodside Park for some thirty years, but like many niche interest shops, seemed to see little real business. Its taxes were all in order, but there were very few regular customers and most of the money that kept it in the black came from occasional large transactions that seemed somewhat excessive for the items being purchased – all hallmarks of money laundering.

You’d be surprised how many businesses that you pass every day on the street are being used in a similar manner. Those shops that never seem to be open, or who cater to such a specific market you wonder how they can break even. Well, often they can’t without some illicit assistance.

Now I’m not the police, I have no power to arrest anyone revoke any licenses or even issue a fine without a good deal of hassle, that all comes later and from other people. My job is just to discuss their compliances and policies to prevent money laundering and examine their transactions to confirm that they’re not too suspect. I find it fascinating but I am keenly aware that the majority of the people I inspect do not share my opinion.

As soon as I arrived at The Trophy Room I could tell that it was going to take some time.

The shop had that layer of grime that only accumulates after a business has been in place for decades without change, the painted golden letters were now a dirty brown and the edges of the olive green awning were streaked with muck. The stuffed tiger in the window was so faded by the sun that I had to do a double-take to check it wasn’t a lion, so faint with the stripes. Its eyes were glassy and one of its teeth seemed to have broken off.

Even so, there was something about the curve of its mouth that drew me in, and I got so lost looking at it that I quite jumped when the bell above the door sounded its jarring clang.

I looked up to see a surprisingly young man standing there. I had expected some crusty old gamekeeper type judging by the look of the place, but instead this fresh-faced 20-something held out his hand for me to shake. I did so. The hand was firm and very dry.

I asked him if he was the owner, and he said he was, introducing himself as Daniel Rawlings. Apparently the place had belonged to an old friend of his father’s, who didn’t have much in the way of family, and when he passed away a few years before Daniel had inherited it.

I asked him if he was even interested in taxidermy and he just shrugged and gestured me inside.

The smell hit me as soon as I crossed the threshold. It was so thick you could almost taste it, like something had murdered a lily and it was rotting under the floorboards. Dreadful smell. I turned to see Daniel lighting a cigarette as if in acknowledgment of the odor. He just shrugged again and said it was chemicals, casting an eye over the assembled collection of taxidermied wildlife.

It was then that I became aware of them. Hundreds of glossy dead eyes staring at me from all directions. A huge moose in front of me, a shelf full of squirrels along the wall, unmoving ravens attached to an old electric chandelier, and dozens and dozens of fish mounted on plaques or sealed in fake tanks.

Fur, feathers, scales, every manner and type of dead skin surrounded me, each frozen in uncanny stillness as though they were trapped in a world where time had simply stopped. Everything except their eyes of course. Their eyes had never been alive and they all seemed to stare in my direction, so that to look too close at any of them was to gaze into that unseeing glass.

I took a moment to compose myself and try to remember that I had made a decision to not judge the shop or its owner based on the fact that many consider taxidermy unsettling. I could see myself becoming one of these people and I fought very hard against the feeling of wrongness that seemed to be trying to worm itself into my mind.

I forced myself to pay Daniel some big compliment about the variety of his pieces as he lit another cigarette. I considered mentioning the smoking ban but that wasn’t really why I was there,so I just started talking about money laundering instead.

He nodded and said he’d had the letter announcing the inspection and had got all the accounts and transactions for the past few years ready for me, he explained that as he’d only taken over the business very recently he wasn’t aware of much in the way of anti-money laundering policies or procedures. This was music to my ears, as there’s very little I enjoy more than taking an engaged new business owner through the basics and in a few minutes I’d forgotten all the glassy eyes that seemed to follow me around the room. (At least mostly.)

Daniel seemed remarkably interested when I outlined basic checks in due diligence, but it wasn’t the first time. People, especially new business owners, tend to sit up and take notice when HMRC turns up for a visit. I mean, I try not to exploit my position, but people take a visit from the taxman very seriously and it can produce some wonderfully attentive audiences.

Daniel didn’t seem panicked or worried though, simply intrigued. He asked all the right questions and was always ready with a good example for any of the more abstract aspects of the discussion. All in all he was a real pleasure to discuss money laundering with. I’d even stopped noticing the smell after a while, though I’d become aware of it again whenever he started another cigarette, something that usually happened almost immediately after he finished his last one. I can’t even imagine what his lungs must have looked like.

The only thing there was a touch awkward was that he seemed determined to avoid eye contact, looking at the floor, or the taxidermied animals, but never directly at me. It was a little bit disconcerting, but I have a cousin with autism so it wasn’t an entirely new situation to me.

Eventually the discussion ended and Daniel talked through some of the potential policies he was going to put in place. They actually seemed a bit excessive given that he was the only person currently employed at the Trophy Room, but I certainly wasn’t going to tell him to be less careful.

I then asked if I could have a look at his books, and he nodded again and took me through to the backroom.

The office behind the main shop was small and very clean. Most of the space was taken up by a large oak desk, and I could see another door leading through to what seemed to be a workshop judging by the tables and bags of sawdust.

Daniel handed me his account books, bank records, and receipts and left me to it. None of it had been digitized and I could tell it was going to take me a long time to get through it all. The smell was fainter here though, so it wasn’t quite as dreadful as it might have been.

There was taxidermy in this room as well, though different to the ones out front. Hung along the back walls were pelts and treated animal skins. They looked very old. Some I recognised as a Native American or African in origin, and one seemed so old I was worried to even breathe near it in case it collapsed into dust.

On top of the desk, pressed up against the wall was a mounted hare in a small waistcoat. It reminded me of the white rabbit from Alice in Wonderland, although its fur was faded and now stained a faint yellow. I found its face a bit more unsettling than the others though I couldn’t tell you why, and I tried not to look too closely at it as I went through the shop’s records.

It didn’t look like there was any money-laundering going on, which was a relief. The prices that people were occasionally paying for the stuffed creatures were very high, but I’m by no means an expert on the industry and there didn’t seem to be anything else suspicious in the books.

I did wonder the sort of people he was selling to though.

From the back room I watched four customers enter over the course of the day. In each case I watched as they got more and more unnerved before finally fleeing back out the door, trying to rationalize their fear. I sympathized.

It was almost closing time when Daniel came back to check on me. I gave him the good news. He didn’t seem particularly believe it but told me he was glad to hear it. Then he laughed and asked if I knew how honored I was. I didn’t understand.

He told me that I was sat here among some of the oldest skin in the world. That was how he phrased it. It put me a bit on edge and I cast a nervous glance towards the workshop before reminding myself that I was keeping an open mind about his strange profession.

Daniel started to go through the pieces on display. Buffalo skin from North America, jaguar from the South, a wolf pelt from the early Middle Ages. The hare, he said, had been part of the Great Exhibition of 1851 and it helped drive Victorian England mad for the craft.

I didn’t like the emphasis he put on “mad” when he said that.

Finally he pointed to the oldest of the pelts. He told me it was gorilla skin from Carthage, brought by Hanno in the 5th century BC, and it might just be the oldest piece of taxidermy in the world.

To be honest I didn’t believe him. Even if a gorilla’s hide could be preserved for more than two millennia, it seemed an unlikely thing to be found in the back of a shop in Barnet. It was clearly very old though, and I didn’t challenge him on it.

I was just about to make my excuses and go when the bell rang out at the front of the shop, and a pair of obnoxious Cockney voices started to call out for Daniel. His face went blank at this and he asked me to excuse him one second, abruptly leaving me in the back room alone.

I heard the men say something about unloading a van and then the bell rang again, taking Daniel with it. I was alone.

I was just packing up and making some final notes for my report when I heard something. It was muffled but definitely seemed to be words. It sounded like it was coming from beneath the floor. I looked and saw a ring pull connected to a small door I hadn’t noticed, which I assumed led to a basement.

The sound came again. I cast a look into the main shop to see if Daniel had returned, but it was quiet.

I knew opening the door was a stupid thing to do. I can’t imagine a single scenario where it would have ended well for me, but the whole place was so strange that part of me couldn’t resist seeing how deep the rabbit-hole went, if you’re part of the joke.

So I opened the door.

It did indeed have a flight of stairs disappearing down into what seemed to be a basement. If there was a light switch I couldn’t see it. It was impossible to see anything beyond the first dozen steps or so. The light that filtered through from the dim bulb behind me did illuminate one thing though.

A face.

I couldn’t make out any details but it was pale and swayed ever so slightly from side to side. The body below it was shadowed and hidden but it seemed to stare up at me as it moved.

It spoke, the cadence identical to what I had heard through the wooden door.

“We’ve got one down here. Come on, I’ll show you.”

It was so flat, almost mechanical. It felt about as much like genuine speech as the wind flowing through a cracked rock sounds like a flute being played. Which is to say they may sound almost identical, but only one of them is made by a living human. I started to say something, to call out, but my voice died in my throat slightly as the face retreated back into the basement.

“We’ve got one down here. Come on, I’ll show you.”

I turned and walked very briskly into the main shop. I was now fully terrified and could feel the cold sweat dripping off my forehead. In the doorway stood Daniel. He asked if I was alright with a smile that made my stomach drop, and at last he looked me in the eyes.

I recognized the glassy stare. The same eyes that gazed at me from a hundred sawdust filled sockets around the room.

When they all began to move I nearly broke down. If I had, I have no doubt that I would be dead or maybe far worse. Instead I had a sudden rush of adrenaline and charged into Daniel, knocking him sprawling to the floor in surprise. It was like hitting a sandbag.

His two Cockney friends were too slow to grab me before I was off down the road. I may not look it, but I can move it a fair pace when I need to, and I did so for almost an hour before I finally felt safe enough to stop.

I was very lucky, you know. I had the foresight to gather all my notes before I opened the basement door. It meant I didn’t have to return, I could simply write them up a glowing report and never think about it again.

Save for giving you my statement of course. And that’s exactly what I did. After all, whatever all that other stuff was, they weren’t laundering money.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

It was with some trepidation that I made the discovery that the Trophy Room is still in business and still under proprietorship of Daniel Rawlings. It’s the sort of lead we never get in these cases, still active and available for investigation. However, given the events detailed here, I had some very serious reservations about sending anyone to investigate. I may not entirely trust my assistants but I won’t lose them.

Eventually Sasha volunteered. I warned her it might be dangerous but she did seem very keen. It turned out to be rather a letdown in the end.

Sinister as the taxidermy, was there was apparently no figure in the basement, which Rawlings was happy to let her investigate, nor any obvious weirdness to any other aspect of the shop. Rawlings denies any memory of specifically Cockney deliverymen, but I’m sure I don’t need to spell out my suspicions there.

There’s nothing we can prove and if he doesn’t want to talk there’s precious little we can do to change his mind. He also denies being the same Daniel Rawlings who disappeared from Edinburgh in 2006.

He allowed Sasha to take a photograph of him and I’ve been comparing the pictures available for the Daniel Rawlings who disappeared. It’s the strangest thing. They’re different heights, different builds, different shapes to the face, but their hair is identical.

Their eyes on the other hand are not, and I find it hard to credit that they could be the same person. Another dead end.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I broke into Gertrude’s flat.

I was doing some digging when I discovered that her home had not yet been relet. A quick discussion with the agent confirmed that there were some legal delays due to the manner of her disappearance and death, and she was paid up for the next six months, so they hadn’t yet cleared it out.

So I broke in. It wasn’t easy and the window meant that I didn’t get a lot of time before I heard sirens but I think I got away with it.

I learned a few things from this. Firstly, Gertrude lived a very minimalist existence. There was nothing in the kitchen except teabags, a pot, kettle, and a single mug. Her bed was neatly made and she had a single bookshelf filled with an array of volumes, mostly on history. Judging by the bag I found nearby, I think she must have gotten rid of books once she had read them.

She didn’t own a television, but I did find something that piqued my interest: a laptop charger. There was no sign of the computer that went with it, but the indication that she might have owned one has inserted itself rather high on my priorities list.

Still, her home has given me little information in of itself, though it continues to prove that my impressions of Gertrude could hardly have been less accurate. I’m starting to feel like the only correct assumption I made about her was that she probably liked tea.

Oh, and I looked through a handful of books on her shelf. They were very well taken care of, with the exception that anytime a person’s face was featured on the cover, their eyes had been cut out and very carefully removed.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Say it again, please.

JORDAN
Excuse me?

ARCHIVIST
What you just said, can you say it again, so I have it on tape?

JORDAN
Oh, okay.

“Jane Prentiss is dead.”

ARCHIVIST
You’re sure. Completely.

JORDAN
Yeah. I watched the incineration.

ARCHIVIST
And there were no… complications?

JORDAN
Like… what?

ARCHIVIST
Surviving worms that escaped, uh, movement from the body during incineration, noises from it, like screams or chanting, weird feelings, like a thousand tiny crawling things are moving across your skin?

JORDAN
Wow! No, nothing like that. Just the smell, but, I mean, I’ll get to that.

It went well. Nothing left but the ashes I gave to your friend. Which I shouldn’t have, by the way, so keep it to yourself.

ARCHIVIST
Of course. And thank you.

JORDAN
Sure.

ARCHIVIST
It’s been months, though. Why are you just looking to make your statement now?

JORDAN
It’s not really… it’s not just burning her body. I was also the one that was first called in to deal with the nest in her old apartment.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

JORDAN
Yeah! But there are a few things I’ve been thinking about, putting some pieces together, and I thought, well, you guys should probably know.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Well, start from the beginning, wherever you feel comfortable. Statement of Jordan Kennedy regarding…?

JORDAN
Several weird things I’ve found while working in pest control.

ARCHIVIST
Statement taken direct from subject, 3rd November, 2016.

Statement begins.

JORDAN (STATEMENT)
I’ve worked as an exterminator for the better part of 10 years now. I should say pest controller, really - the BPCA generally advise against using the e-word. They feel it sounds a bit too unpleasant, harms our public image. I’ve never really minded. I mean, I guess I could say killing things is sort of exerting control over them, but I’ve always felt that trying to sanitize my job is somehow a bit dishonest. Like trying to help people forget that what they’re actually doing is commissioning the deaths of creatures which we’ve deemed too disgusting or unhealthy to live. It needs doing, don’t get me wrong, and I’m happy enough to do it, but it isn’t my job to hold people’s hands and make them feel better about it.

I’ve done places all over London - mainly big commercial buildings where I have to work at night, while all the bankers and the like have gone home. Setting traps, putting down poison boxes, the usual. Residential homes don’t call me out quite as much for rats and mice, especially if it’s a rental place. Most landlords don’t bother paying out for that sort of thing, or try to deal with it themselves.

Get a lot of calls about bedbugs, though. Those little bastards the devil to get rid of, and of course come summer we have to deal with plenty of wasps nests. Sprinkle in a generous handful of cockroaches, ants, and occasionally even birds or foxes, and you have a pretty good idea of what my working life consists of. Pretty normal.

Got my first weird call about five years ago. It was ants - or, so I was told. Down in Bromley. The house itself looked like a pretty standard suburban home. Maybe a bit more rundown than its neighbours, but nothing particularly unusual about that, especially if they were calling me in. There was no car in the driveway, and the blinds were all drawn despite the summer sun. It didn’t look like there was anyone home.

I found out later that it had actually been one of the neighbors that called me in, a woman named Laura Star, but at that point I was still expecting to be met by someone at the house. I knocked on the door, but obviously there was no answer.

Now, I always wear gloves when I’m on the job and when I noticed my hand, I noticed a very faint sheen where the thin leather had touched the wood. It seemed to be some sort of oily residue. I was feeling less comfortable with the job by the second. I couldn’t hear anything from inside, so I knocked again. The woman who hired me had said to let myself in, but I didn’t want to just waltz in unannounced.

After a few seconds of silence, I tried the handle, and sure enough, the door opened. There were no lights on inside, and the place seemed almost completely empty of furniture. I could see faint movement on the wooden floor as I looked around for the light switch. I found it quickly enough, and flicked it on to reveal exactly what I’d expected. Ants. I just hadn’t expected that many. And there were so very many of them. To this day I have never seen more ants inside a building at once. There must have been thousands carpeting the floor and swarming over the walls.

I drew my hand back from the light switch as I noticed dozens of them crawling around it. Even the bulb seemed to be covered with them, causing the light in the room to be covered with twitching shadow. The house itself didn’t look much better. Wherever there was a gap in the ants I could see that same oily rot, and I couldn’t escape the idea that the building was somehow sick.

Now, I’ve seen plenty of disgusting things in this job, but I reckon that moment was one of the most intense. I fled briefly back to my van to decide on my next move. Normally, I’d leave out some poison bait for them to take back to their colony, eliminating the problem at its source, but an infestation that bad, well, that doesn’t come from nothing.

I needed to get a sense of exactly what I was dealing with. Even from the road I could see a steady stream flowing out the open door and over the step. I kitted up with pesticide spray and headed in for a closer look. I wouldn’t normally bother using spray on ants, but this wasn’t normal, and the formula I was using works on ants just fine. That said, I didn’t actually see any of them die. I wouldn’t have expected to immediately, anyway, and what was important is that wherever I sprayed, they fled, clearing a path of discolored floor for me to walk.

It was slow going, but I got through most of the ground floor like that, and didn’t see anything except more ants. No people, no furniture, nothing. At least until I reached the kitchen and saw the fridge.

There was nothing else in that kitchen. Even the sink had been removed, leaving just the water pipes sticking out of the wall, like rusty, diseased bones. But up against the far wall stood an old fridge. Its once white-skin was now a jaundiced yellow, and I couldn’t quite shake the feeling that it was pulsing ever-so-gently. Thick, black, massive ants swarmed from the crack in its door and I had no doubt that whatever was at the heart of this incredibly unpleasant situation, it was going to be in that fridge.

So, I decided it was probably a good idea to step outside for a cigarette before I opened it. The air outside seemed much fresher as I left the house. I walked a few yards away from the door, so that I wasn’t too close, and then I lit up. It was as I took the first drag that I saw a car pull up to the driveway. It was a small red compact, and the license plate seemed to indicate that it had only been bought the year before. But even so, I could see the rust starting bubble the paint near the edges of the paneling.

I watched as the door opened and a man stepped out. He was tall, maybe six-and-a-half feet, but it was hard to be sure of his shape inside the huge, brown suit he was wearing. He took one look at me, then the sign on the side of my van that read “Kennedy Pest Control,” and his face began to crease with rage.

I took another drag on my cigarette. I was… uneasy about the whole situation, and was waiting to see what the strange-looking man would do. He walked up to me, great strides that brought him close enough that I could see the unhealthy gloss of sweat on his skin. Was everything here sick?

He leaned in far closer than I was comfortable with and demanded to know what I was doing. I told him that the homeowner had hired me to take care of an ant infestation, and I’d been doing a preliminary sweep. He started to shake his head violently, saying that he was the homeowner, that this was his house, and I had no business being there. Well, those weren’t his exact words. What he actually said was that I had no business “applying my vile trade on his property.”

I was about to get out my phone and call the woman who hired me when his hand shot out without warning and grabbed me by the throat. He lifted me off my feet with a strength that terrified me, and I was very glad that, even with the hood down, my protective suit kept my neck covered. I could feel his hand through the thick plastic. It was hot, like he was running some incredibly high fever, and I started to panic.

He held me there, almost a foot off the ground, and my vision began to swim as he squeezed my throat. As I struggled for breath, I flailed for something to fight him off with, and realized I was still holding my lighter. With a the degree of composure that, looking back on it now, still surprises me, I flicked the lighter on, and raised it to just below his arm.

The result was a lot more dramatic than I expected. His loose brown suit sleeve caught almost immediately, and within a few moments, his whole arm was alight. He yelped and dropped me onto the ground. As he began to flail about, trying to stop the fire spreading further across his body I staggered to my van. By then, it didn’t matter who the rightful owner of that house was, I was done with that job.

It was as I was climbing into the van that I smelled it. It is the most disgusting thing I have ever encountered, halfway between sun-cured roadkill, stale sweat, and rotten eggs, with just a hint of burning rubber. And underneath it all is that undefinable scent of sickness. You know, that smell you get when you enter a room where someone’s been ill for several days. No matter what else it smells like, beneath it all there’s that vague but undeniable whiff of disease. That’s what this man smelt like as he desperately tried to extinguish his burning flesh.

I drove away, trying not to gag, and I didn’t look back. I didn’t call the police, either as I felt they might not look too kindly on me setting a man alight, even if he did attack me. I assume he didn’t file a report, either, as no one ever turned up to question me about it.

So, that was the first time I encountered that smell.

ARCHIVIST
I see. And the other time was when you burned Jane Prentiss?

JORDAN (STATEMENT)
Not… just.

I mean, I didn’t actually see her. The incineration was the first time I ever saw her in person. But a couple of years ago, I was called in to deal with the wasp’s nest.

That’s what the landlord had called it on the phone, at least - apparently, it had injured one of his tenants earlier that day, and I was the first pest control service he had called that was free immediately. He didn’t tell me the name of the tenant, though obviously I now know who it was. He didn’t give me any real details on the phone, but he seemed happy to pay the emergency call-out charge, so I bundled up my wasp gear and headed out to Prospero Road.

It was a bit strange to get a call about wasps at that time of year. It was late February or early March, I think, and still quite cold. Still, if it was a warm enough building, they could easily be getting active. Regardless, I made sure to check over the thick suit I used for that sort of job, to make sure there was no weakness or damage. If they were aggressive enough to injure someone, I wasn’t gonna take any chances.

The landlord’s name was Arthur Nolan. He was a short man with a constant scowl, thinning white hair, and a well-chewed cigar. It looked like his denim shirt had once contained quite an athletic build, but it had long since sailed. He looked me up and down as I left my van, and I saw his mouth twist briefly in irritation. Clearly, he wasn’t impressed.

I gave him the usual talk through what was gonna happen, and he nodded absently before pressing the keys to flat four into my hands and pointing me towards it. If I needed anything, he said, he’d be in flat one, where he lived. I advised him and the other tenants to stay out the building while I was dealing with the wasps, but he just grunted and told me again that he’d be in flat one. The other tenants had apparently already left.

I loaded up on insecticide and headed in. It was a lot quieter than I expected. By the time I was outside flat four, I would normally have expected to be hearing the buzzing sound of wasps, but the evening was quiet. I opened the door slowly - no sudden movements that might alarm anything on the other side - but again the flat seemed to be empty.

It looked like there’d been some chaos, though, with books and clothes strewn across the floor, and a shattered TV screen in the corner. I found the ladder up into the loftspace in the center of the bedroom. It was quite small, and climbing in my bulky suit was tricky, but I got up there. Still no wasps, but it was very dark, so I rooted around again until I found the switch to a single bare bulb. The light was very faint, but enough to make out a thick, pulpy lump up against the far wall.

It certainly didn’t look like any wasp’s nest I’d seen before. I mean, the shape was familiar enough, but the texture of the surface was way off. It seemed a lot less papery than would have been normal, and the walls were less… regular, going off at odd angles and making it kind of hard to look away. The whole thing was spongy, pocked with tiny holes, and generally looking very unhealthy indeed. And most disconcerting of all, there were still no wasps.

None of this changed the job I had to do, so I figured I’d start off like any other wasp’s nest and see if it worked. I reached forward, staying as far from this thing as the nozzle would let me, and I pushed it into one of the larger holes. It sank in with almost no resistance at all. I took a deep breath, and pulled the trigger, spraying the insecticide dust deep into the mass.

The effect was immediate. The whole thing started to pulse and spasm, the spongy flesh of it throbbing and bubbling like some sort of vile putty. It began to grow in size, blossoming out and covering the rest of the nozzle, reaching out for me. And then it began to… scream. Not the sound of air escaping, or a buzzing that sounded like screaming, the weird nest thing was letting out a long, warbling cry of anger and pain.

I dropped the pump and was down the ladder so fast I almost fell into the flat below. I could still hear it as I reached the door to the corridor. I threw it open only to be confronted by the face of Arthur Nolan, the landlord, staring at me with a look of disappointment.

He nodded and began to walk down the hall. I followed him, desperate for answers, but he just ignored my questions about what the hell was going on, about what that thing was, and kept walking down the stairs to his own flat. At one point he shook his head and mumbled something about hoping it wouldn’t get this far, but he didn’t seem to be saying it to me.

As soon as the door opened I became aware of how uncomfortably warm flat one was. The air was thick and dry, and made my throat feel a bit scratchy. The landlord continued to ignore my presence, and walked over to an old armchair in the center of the room. As he did so, he started to unbutton his denim shirt.

Moreso than anything else that happened, that was the thing that finally stopped me in confusion. I couldn’t understand what he was doing. As he sat down, his shirt flapped open, and I saw what looked to be an intricate scar on his chest. If I had to guess what it was, I’d have said it looked like a stylized flame, but it also made me think of a face contorted in pain.

Time seemed to move slowly as he reached for the ashtray on the arm of the chair, and picked up a pack of matches. He struck one, and without even looking at me, he gently pressed the small flame to the center of the scar.

His flesh caught fire immediately. The flames spread across his body like rippling water. The armchair caught, then the floor, and then I was running out of the building before the roiling inferno covered me as well. This time, I didn’t drive away. I stood there and I watched it burn until the fire brigade arrived.

It was when the fire hit that attic space at the top floor, where I knew that awful nest still sat. That was when I smelled it: the same grotesque stench that had come from that oily, fevered man three years before.

At the time, I didn’t really connect the two. I was too busy trying to comprehend what had just happened. And when trucks from the ECDC showed up to put me in quarantine, it slipped my mind entirely.

They were surprisingly forthcoming about Jane Prentiss and what had happened, and after an extensive debriefing, they actually offered me a job. Apparently, disease control and pest control often go hand in hand, and I’ve been working for them since. Most of the job’s been mundane - a couple slightly weird, but nothing like those two.

ARCHIVIST
So why make your statement now?

JORDAN
When I helped incinerate her body, I smelled it again. Like before. Took me awhile to piece the two together, but I thought you should know.

ARCHIVIST
Are you saying there might be more out there like her?

JORDAN
God, I hope not. I don’t know. The man from the ant house, he wasn’t like her, not at all.

But that smell when they burned… I think they’re connected, somehow. And that scares me.

ARCHIVIST
Yes… yes, it rather scares me too.

[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Mr. Kennedy’s statement has left me somewhat rattled. While I am always glad of any further closure to the case of Jane Prentiss, this seems to come with the rather serious caveat that she might not have been working alone.

No, that, that doesn’t sound right. Jane Prentiss - or whatever this “flesh hive” was that took her - does not seem like the sort of being that would work well with others.

The house in Bromley was torn down last year, but Martin managed to locate the ownership records. It was listed as belonging to John Amherst. The dates aren’t entirely clear as to whether this was just before or just after he apparently took charge of Ivy Meadows Nursing Home, but there can be no doubt that it was the same person. All the ownership records from the ant house lead to dead ends or deactivated bank accounts.

It doesn’t sound like he’s another flesh hive… and yet… No connection, except disease, and insects, and a foul smell when they burn.

Jane Prentiss is dead. But this is a long way from over.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I… I don’t have much to report, actually. It’s been Halloween week, which means the research department is always inundated with statements. Most of them are patently false, but the volume means that they’ve called in the archive to assist with the overflow.

It’s… been nice, actually. Disproving piles of nonsense felt good, like real work, not just driving myself to distraction with conspiracy theories and paranoia. I even got a good night’s sleep. I miss those days.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Continued statement of Trevor Hebert, regarding the latter years of his career as a vampire hunter.

Original statement given July 10th, 2010.

Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Note: several pages are missing from the file around the time that he apparently did not die of lung cancer in the institute.

Statement resumes.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
She died in the end.

Sad old thing but she didn’t deserve that. Always wondered what would have happened if I’d gotten there a bit sooner.

Trouble is, once they’ve really got their teeth into you you’re as good as dead even if they don’t drain you. Gushing on the floor or bloating a vampire’s belly doesn’t make much difference to the poor fool bleeding out.

I often wondered if I was mad, you know. I mean, no one else seems to have seen these things, and I found plenty across my life. Perhaps I just got the smell of them.

Like, no one else ever really got away and my early escape from Sylvia MacDonald gave me a sense that could pick them out.

There’s a sharpness to them. They’re hunters. But over the years I’ve become a hunter as well and maybe predators recognize each other. All I know is, these days I can almost smell the blood coming off them.

That’s not to say I can’t be wrong though. I can be very wrong indeed.

I found Alard Dupont in the summer of 1982 and murdered him shortly afterwards. I used the word murder here, where I have not before, because he was the only one I’ve killed I know to have been human.

In most ways I regret his death, but there is a certain comfort to it. If I was just a serial killer with a hallucination I don’t see why my mind wouldn’t have made Dupont vampire as well.

The fact that I was able to kill normal people reassures me that the creatures I hunt are real. Do you understand?

That’s not to say that the death of Alard Dupont wasn’t the result of several extremely bad decisions on my part. In the early 80s, I was deep in the grip of my twin addictions. As I mentioned, after a while the hunt became an addiction of its own. Of the two I have always found heroin the easier one to quit.

Heroin is calm. It’s a small chunk of peace in a world that’s full of nothing but hard edges. It’s hard to put that down permanently, but the hunt…

The hunt is a purpose. It’s not just a way to get through the day, it’s a reason for there to be a day at all.

I tried to give it up for a while after Dupont but it burned in me far deeper than any hitch I got when I was clocking.

Back in ‘82 though those addictions were running pretty much unchecked. It had been several years since I’d last found a vampire and every waking moment I wasn’t high was spent in keen lookout for anything suspicious.

I was in bad shape physically. I’d acquired an infection from injecting between my toes, which would eventually hospitalized me and lead to my losing two of them, though I luckily kept the foot. At that point though it just slowed me to a limp and caused me a reasonable amount of pain.

Perhaps if I’d been faster, able to keep up with Dupont more easily, I would have realized my mistake. Perhaps if my mind hadn’t been so fogged with brown I might have beaten it out, or perhaps if I hadn’t been so dead eager to kill another vampire any of these might have saved him. Maybe even if he’d had a name that didn’t make me think of Dracula.

But none of those things were the case, so dwelling on them is pointless.

I don’t know if Dupont was technically a mute or not. I’ve had no real experience with the condition and he didn’t seem to have any problems with his hearing.

Either way I never saw him speak, which by now I’m sure you know is what I would consider a significant warning sign for vampirism.

A friend of mine I shared a shelter with some weeks before, and who shared a similar weakness for narcotics, had mentioned how amazing it was that his dealer was always able to know exactly what he was after without either of them saying.

In retrospect I should have realized that it didn’t exactly match the vampires I’d met before, who’d never displayed any sort of mind-reading, but I was aching for a killer.

The kid who told me this was a weird one. Must have been about nineteen years old, told everyone his name was Stanley Kubrick. He was always making references to his film career, and I was never able to figure out if it was actually his real name that he happened to share with the director, or if it was just some weird joke he was really committed to.

What struck me about him more than that, though, were the scars on his neck.

I later discovered they were from a dog attack when he was younger, but at the time I was convinced they were connected to Dupont so I found were allowed Dupont made his handovers at Piccadilly Gardens and I started to watch.

He was surprisingly brazen about it – sat there on a park bench for hours smoking or reading some magazine or other. I’ve never seen a vampire read a magazine before, but I had seen them pantomime watching television or reading a book to better blend in, so it didn’t raise any suspicions for me.

Then came the moment that fully convinced me I had to kill Dupont.

As he sat there on the bench two policemen walked past me heading towards him. They took no notice of me, nobody notices a tramp.

But as they walked up the path towards the figure on the bench one of the police nudged his partner and gestured towards him. They clearly considered him suspicious and began to walk over.

As they got close though Dupont looked up and made eye contact with them.

They stopped just for a moment and he nodded gently. The policeman looked at each other, turned, and walked away.

That was all I needed to be sure of what he was.

The idea I have come to since then, that the two police officers were simply on the take and hadn’t immediately recognized him, didn’t occur to me until much later.

It was an overcast day and it seems to me that Dupont was keeping in the shadows just as I thought he would. I kept watching as he made a few more transactions.

I was craving a hit of my own by that point. There was a much more intense rush I was chasing just then and it pushed all thoughts of junk to the back of my mind.

Eventually evening fell and I watched Dupont rise from his bench and make his way down to the town center, keeping downwind of him and sticking to the shadows. Obviously the darkness would be no impediment to him spotting me but I’d learned that, inconspicuous as a homeless man might be, it’s still always best to be seen by as few witnesses as possible.

I figured he was heading towards a nightclub or dance, a favorite haunt of the vampire since the loud music makes their lack of speech that much easier to hide. I was right in as far as he headed towards the Hacienda, one of the loudest clubs in Manchester. It wasn’t as notorious then as it would later become, in fact I think it had only recently opened when all this happened. But even at its worst it would probably have drawn the line at allowing me entrance given the state I was in.

So I watched Dupont head inside, adopting my camouflage of softly asking passersby for change and waited.

It was about two hours later that he emerged, another man following close behind him. I didn’t recognize them, I mean there’s no reason I should have, but Dupont’s new friend was almost as big as he was.

Vampires tend to go for the smaller victims, those less able to defend themselves, should the initial surprise of their attack not be enough. This one really looked like he could take care of himself. Still, as far as I was concerned he had no idea what was about to happen to him. As Mr. Dupont led him down a nearby alley, I hurried after them.

I was quiet as I limped through the rubbish that covered the alleyway and I silently drew my trusty hammer. After a minute they turned in to a doorway and took out a key. The door opened and they both stepped inside.

I had a sudden alarm at the thought of getting locked out and being unable to reach him. Forgetting stealth, I grabbed the door and flung it open. They turned to face me.

I charged him with a cry, slamming the hammer into Dupont’s shoulder and knocking him to the ground with a sickening crack.

I will never forget the moment I heard Alard Dupont scream.

There was such a piercing sound and something I’d never expected. In a moment everything I’d built up in my head over the past couple of days shattered and I felt a sudden panic at what I’d done. What I was doing.

His friend screamed as well and started to run back out the door. I don’t know if he got a good look at me. Given the police never came around to question me I guess not.

Dupont was still screaming, that horrid sound overriding all other thoughts. Blood was streaming from his face where it had hit the ground and I didn’t know what to do. I had to get out of there, but that noise was too much.

I couldn’t focus, couldn’t do anything, so I hit him again. Hard. In the head. And then he was quiet, and everything was horribly still.

He just lay there.

I have never felt anything like the shame and disgust I felt at that moment.

I tried to burn his body more out of habit than anything else, but it didn’t really take and I fled out into the street before the police arrived.

After that I spent over a decade in a very serious spiral. I don’t remember much of it, except that I spent most of it so high that looking back I’m genuinely astounded I never OD’d. I only snapped out of it in ‘96 when a chance encounter with a creature that called itself Hannah Edwards led to my saving a young woman from becoming its dinner.

I won’t bother with details. It was very similar to my hunt for Jane Lewis except that the victim made it out alive this time.

I wonder why it is that I only ever seemed to find them just before they attack. It can’t be that they spent every night feeding, the world would be a bloodbath.

Maybe they just blend in better when they’re not on the hunt and I don’t spot them. Or maybe they hibernate. It’s not a question I think I’ll ever be able to answer, but it does mean that there is always an urgency to the hunts that has for the most part stopped me doing much investigation into them.

Hannah was my fifth confirmed vampire and the last one, assuming I don’t find another before the cancer takes me.

I really considered myself retired, resting after a life spent defending the world from the darkness. Because that’s what I thought it was, you know. Vampires were what lurked in the dark. The only thing that lurked in the dark.

Last year though, just before my diagnosis, I met something that made me rethink this.

I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you that winter is a hard time to be homeless. Doesn’t matter how many times you’ve done it, when that first cold wind blows through you it’s like some awful death coming to you.

The last one was really bad. A bunch of the shelters I normally hit up had closed up shop and those that were left tended to fill up fast.

I do pretty okay given I’m a well-known face and all that but I still felt the pressure to scrape enough cash together to secure my spot early. Even then there’d be a couple of times a week that I still ended up in the cold.

My old bones don’t do so well at that these days, so I was keeping quite a close eye on the comings and goings around the night shelters of Manchester, and after a few weeks I started to notice something strange.

Several times at a couple of different shelters I watched one of the sleepers get up in the middle of the night, gather their possessions, and walk out into the freezing streets of the city. To see it happen once would have been strange but to see it happen several times was surreal. I was sober at the time so I couldn’t even pass it off as a trick of the mind.

Even stranger, every time it happened, within 10 minutes a woman would walk in and take their place. It was the same one every time. She must have been about 40, and slender, though her clothes bulged a bit in odd places. Her face was lined from what I could recognize as a hard life and a thin layer of grime matted her hair.

She looked pretty normal for the place, and I could even write off the distant, neutral expression as the sort of trauma all too common among my people. That’s why I didn’t pay her any mind the first time it happened, or the second.

When I noticed it happening a third time I finally started to pay attention, though I didn’t approach her immediately.

I did ask about her the following morning but even the staff didn’t seem to know anything. I decided to keep a lookout and if she turned up again I would confront her.

Well, she did.

It was late January when it happened, about 2:00 in the morning. Just when the night was at its coldest. I saw one of my fellow sleepers get slowly out of bed. His name was Craig, I think. I didn’t know him well, he was a seasonal drifter and we’d only occasionally crossed paths.

Well, he walked out without a sound gathering up his belongings quietly and leaving an empty bed.

I waited wide awake, hand on my knife, breathing steady. Sure enough, a few minutes later, in she walks, no backpack or gear of any sort, and sat on Craig’s bed.

I stood up and walked towards her. As soon as she saw me her posture changed and she became defensive, although the expression on her face and never changed from that blankness.

I started to introduce myself and ask how come she was taking over Craig’s bed when she locked eyes with me, and the weirdest sensation began to flow through me. I wanted to leave. It wasn’t like with a vampire where I would feel like I’d been spoken to, this was just a sudden awareness of my own desire.

I’ve been sober for three years at that point but I felt like I desperately wanted to get high, and I knew that the best place to get some was out in the night.

Looking back I think it might have been my own mind rationalizing the way I felt my will being tugged out of the room, but it was still very powerful. If I hadn’t had a lifetime’s experience identifying and fighting off the effect of the vampire’s gaze I probably would have done it too. But I did, so I stood my ground.

There was a long pause as that woman gazed levelly at me.

Then she broke into a run through the door and out. I followed. Didn’t matter to me whether she was a vampire or not, there was something wrong and I wanted to find out what was going on.

I chased her out into the road. It was cold and still and if anyone saw us they didn’t make a sound.

She ran strangely, more like a spasm, smooth steps, and her arms shifted in weird ways as she moved. I’m not as spry as I once was and my lungs were obviously shot but I managed to keep pace with her.

I could feel it in my blood. It was a hunt and I always felt stronger on a hunt.

Finally I got close enough to grab her by the arm. My fingers locked around her elbow, and then they sort of sunk inside. They didn’t go through the skin or anything but it sort of shifted beneath my fingers like when you squeeze an uncooked sausage.

I could feel movement from inside the arm itself. It wasn’t a vampire but it definitely wasn’t human.

With this other arm it took a wide sweeping swing at me, but I was prepared and ducked below the flailing punch.

I got my knife to try and threaten the thing, maybe get it to answer some questions, but I misjudged the draw and ended up slashing it slightly across its stomach. It wasn’t a deep cut or a long one but apparently it was enough.

A whole body began to shudder as tiny shapes began to stream out of the wound.

Spiders.

Thousands and thousands of spiders.

She opened her mouth at last, as if to scream and more poured out. Tens of thousands of skittering legs and evil little eyes. I screamed and started to back up as the dark shapes pooled around her feet and spread out in a twitching circle.

For a second I was worried they were coming for me but then they just scurried off into the shadows and crevices of nearby buildings, until the street was empty of everything except this woman.

She was still standing upright, but from the open mouth, I could see that her body was completely hollow, save for a few cobwebs that I could just make out under the streetlights.

I ran the hell away and that’s the last creature I encountered.

That’s my whole story. You’re welcome to it.

When I thought it was just vampires about, I might have given you people as miss as a bunch of kooks. But if there’s other stuff around out there… maybe you know more about it than me.

And maybe you could use a bit more information on vampires.

It’s a shame I’m on the way out.

I will miss the hunt.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

[agitated] Well, this is certainly a surprise. Martin informed me that Mr. Herbert passed away after making his initial statement, so it is rather a shock to find this misfiled addition to his original, even if it is partially incomplete.

What’s more, actually checking the hospital and death records for both London and Manchester, I can’t find any record of Mr. Herbert’s death. Then again, I could find no record of him alive, either, after the date of the statement.

The idea that he could survive six years with untreated late-stage lung cancer is implausible, to say the least, and yet Alard Dupont’s death appears to match the statement in most of the particulars. He had a half dozen convictions against him for various drug charges or violent misdemeanors, but nothing exceptional.

I can’t find any indication of muteness, but aside from that, everything checks out.

As for the spider person, the only proof of its existence seems to be that I am far too unlucky for it to simply be an old tramp hallucination.

I need to have some words with Martin.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Sit down.

MARTIN
What is–?

ARCHIVIST
Sit. Why did you lie to me about Trevor?

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
[agitated] Why did you tell me he was dead?

MARTIN
Sorry, who’s… who’s Trev–

ARCHIVIST
Trevor Herbert. The tramp? The vampire hunter. You told me he died.

MARTIN
[nervously] But I mean he… did. Didn’t he?

ARCHIVIST
Apparently not.

MARTIN
Oh! Sorry.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry?

MARTIN
I mean, I–I didn’t ever actually meet him. I just heard some of the other researchers mentioning it.

ARCHIVIST
[whispered] *What?

MARTIN
Yeah, well, I could’ve sworn they said he died. I mean… maybe they just said he looks like death or something –

ARCHIVIST
[scoffs]

MARTIN
I really thought they said he was dead.

ARCHIVIST
[venomously] So that’s it. Just a misunderstanding.

MARTIN
[stammering] Yes. You seem to be taking this kind of personal–

ARCHIVIST
Because you keep lying to me, Martin!

MARTIN
About what?!

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. But you are.

[RUSTLING PAPER]
MARTIN
Where did you get that? Have you been going through the bin?

ARCHIVIST
It was in the old document room, just next to where you used to sleep. Your handwriting. “If the others find out I’ve been lying” – lying about what, Martin?

MARTIN
Look, just forget about it, okay? Please.

ARCHIVIST
I *can’t *forget it. Everyone in this place has so many goddamn secrets and I can’t trust a word you say. Not about this and not about Trevor –

MARTIN
Jon, just–

[ARCHIVIST SLAMS ON DESK]
ARCHIVIST
[shouting] Martin!

MARTIN
Okay! Okay! Okay. Just… just… promise you won’t… fire me.

ARCHIVIST
[scoffing] Fire you – fine.

[MARTIN TAKES DEEP BREATH]
MARTIN
I lied on my CV.

ARCHIVIST
…what.

MARTIN
I don’t have a master’s in parapsychology. I don’t even have a degree.

I was 17, my mum, she had – she had some problems and I ended up dropping out of school trying to support us. I tried everything but nowhere was hiring, so I just kind of started to lie on my application, sending them out to just about anywhere.

For some reason my lie about parapsychology got me an interview with Elias and – and then a job here. But most of my employment details are made up. I’m only 29.

ARCHIVIST
[slight laugh] Right, I–I… uh… I believe you.

MARTIN
…why are you smiling?

ARCHIVIST
[audibly smiling] Yes, um, I jus… I won’t mention it to Elias. Just between us.

MARTIN
[hesitant] So you don’t mind?

ARCHIVIST
To be quite honest, Martin, I’m really rather relieved.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Carter Chilcott, regarding his time spent in isolation aboard the space station Daedalus in September 2007.

Original statement given April 4, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
We’re all alone out there.

I know the statistics. How big the universe is, the probabilities and proximities and the promises of other beings out there among the stars, but I’ve been there. There’s nothing. Nothing but empty, uncaring void, lacing dead worlds and dead stars all together like a tapestry of lonely meaninglessness.

Humans have existed for the smallest sliver of a fraction of a moment in the existence of the universe, and we will be extinguished just as widely. And when we are at last gone forever into the quiet emptiness of death, there will be nothing left but the cold universe.

And nothing shall mark our passing because there is nothing to do so.

Dismiss me if you wish to. Take comfort in your escapist fantasies of aliens and visitors from other worlds, but there’s no proof I can give you beyond the testimony of one who has spent so very long staring into that black and empty infinity and knowing, truly knowing, what it means to be floating and forsaken in an empty universe.

I knew isolation experiments could be rough when I signed up. I’m not some naive fool who thought he’d endure a few quirky side effects for science. No, I’m an astronaut, so I do my research. When I was picked for the project, a long-term isolation study set in conditions of low Earth orbit, I read up on as many previous cases and similar experiments from the past 30 years, familiarizing myself with side effects and likely psychological hurdles.

It was daunting to say the least. I wasn’t keen to experience some of what the previous tests seemed to promise what happened to my mind, but I didn’t feel like I had much choice. I’d had my application to the International Space Station floating in limbo for so long that when a private consortium approached me telling me they’d recently launched Daedalus, a small manned satellite of their own, and needed qualified crew members, I jumped at the chance to go to space at last.

I should have realized that what they meant by “crew member” was “lab monkey”. But to be honest, even after I found this out it didn’t do a lot to dampen my enthusiasm for the project. I was going to space.

There were two other people technically on the crew. I say technically as I never spent any time with them beyond the trip up to the Daedalus. Their names were Yan Kilbride and Manuela Dominguez. I’m sure that they probably did a lot more looking after the station than I ever did, but as far as I was concerned I was the only one up there.

From the chatter I heard before the mission began, each of us had an experiment of our own to be concerned with. But they were also there as a backup in case something went horribly wrong with mine, since the observing scientist simply didn’t have the option of intervening themselves.

I remember the man in charge of my particular project, Conrad Lukas, made a face of rather overstated disgust when he told me I wouldn’t be up there entirely on my own. I got the distinct impression he was one of those people who feel that ethical restrictions do nothing but bind the hands of the true scientist and leave them at the mercy of their subjects’ limitations.

My section of the tiny space station was completely self-contained. There was food, sleeping arrangements, and zero-gravity exercise equipment, all for my personal use. The single entrance to the rest of the satellite was locked and sealed. It could be opened from either side but on my side it required a code. I did have access to the code in case of emergency, but I had way too much riding on the mission to even think about being responsible for its early termination.

I also had one large domed window. It allowed me a decent view of the Earth below, as well as plenty of chance to stare off into space, which I did quite a lot in those early days.

I was told the other astronauts would do their best to avoid that window while doing maintenance or repair work outside. Mission Control had also supplied me with a lot of books and films and other entertainment as, like Conrad had told me at the first briefing, the experiment was into isolation, not boredom. So when I locked that door for the first time, I was feeling in pretty good spirits about the whole thing, to be honest.

I knew I was being monitored. There was a little camera mounted on the wall that kept a beady eye on me. It wasn’t so invasive that I couldn’t get away from it when I wanted to, but for the most part I was happy enough to eat and read and exercise in front of the watchful lens.

Obviously those assessing my progress would never communicate with me directly and they might not even be watching a live feed, so if they had opinions on how I was undertaking my task, I never heard them. Even if my task was just sitting around in a room in space waiting for my mind to break.

I tried not to take too much comfort in the knowledge that there were people watching my every move, as I felt that to find that reassuring would go quite strongly against the spirit of the experiment. I had to really feel alone. That at least it didn’t take too long to set in. I can’t honestly see how strapping yourself in to sleep or drinking your juice with a space foil pack on the straw can have much effect on isolation, but I wasn’t going to be the one to bring it up.

I believe some people would have been more disturbed than others by its location orbiting Earth, but it didn’t feel markedly different to me from any of the other isolation studies they conducted over the last few decades. If anything the silent, rolling green and blue of the Earth far below was another source of comfort, in the sure knowledge of the billions of other people making their way through life who had no idea what was right above their heads.

Both of these comforts lasted me almost six weeks. That was when I was aware I should start to experience some of the more distressing side effects.

I’d already passed through listlessness and a bout of insomnia. And I hadn’t been using my exercise machine properly for almost a fortnight, but I still didn’t expect the severity of the hallucinations when they began.

Twice I was woken up by the sound of the door opening, only to find it as tight as it had ever been. Throughout the daytime I would occasionally hear footsteps, which shouldn’t even have been possible in zero gravity. There was also a blackout for about 20 minutes at one point that may or may not have been real. Certainly we didn’t seem to lose power in any other systems except the lights.

So this was all reasonably distressing, but at least it had the advantage of not being unexpected. No, the first warning I got about how bad things were going to get was the spacesuit.

The clocks read it as 14:30 UTC and I was rewatching 28 Days Later, one of the better films that had been provided for my entertainment, when a movement in the window caught my eye. At first I thought it might have been some orbital debris moving past, but then I spotted it, still at the edge of the domed window.

It was a hand. The white bulky gloved hand of someone wearing an EVA suit. It started to float slowly across the window, followed by the rest of the arm, then the torso, ‘till almost the whole suit slowly floating across.

I was excited by the idea of seeing another human being at first, even if it was only brief or might compromise some of the work, but as the suit made its painstaking drift across the space outside, it rotated enough that I could see clearly through the suit’s visor.

There was nobody inside. The floating suit was completely empty.

And I started to suddenly get very scared.

At last it had passed right across and off into the night, the other side, and I stopped to try and calm myself in the face of what had been a deeply strange thing to watch. I managed to do so, but only until I looked again out of that window.

There were no more empty, floating clothes, but I noticed something that for some reason hadn’t dawned on me when watching the empty suit. It was, to put it quite simply, impossible, and I must have approached it from a hundred different angles trying to make sense of it.

The Earth was gone.

At first I assumed it must have been an orientation change, but that didn’t make any sense. The planet below had never been hidden from my position before and if we shifted that radically I would have felt it, I was sure.

But still the fact remained that where the Earth should have been, there was empty, dark space. I must have watched for hours waiting to see the sun. We were definitely still moving, and from what I could tell we still seemed to be moving in some sort of orbit, but without a planet below I have no idea why we kept the same pattern. Regardless, the sun should have been visible sooner or later.

After two days of waiting, I finally accepted the sun and the moon had gone as well.

It wasn’t completely empty out there. Far off in the distance I could still see stars twinkling. Probably long dead, but I knew that there was nothing they could do to save me.

At some point on the first day, I remembered the camera. I focused my attention on it and began to scream and shout for help, in the vain hope that someone might be watching a feed of it and be able to make contact. I cried and begged and pleaded with that camera for almost four hours before I was suddenly struck by a terrifying thought.

I floated over to it and gently took hold of the cables that were fed out from the back into the wall. I followed them along, looking for where they connected the power or broadcasting apparatus. What I found instead were a pair of neatly severed wires.

Transmitting nothing. Powering nothing. Connected to nothing.

The camera had never even been turned on, and had certainly not been transmitting anything to Earth. So what data had they been collecting?

I still have no idea the answer to that question, but I did feel like I gained some small sliver of control back after spending an all-too-brief hour smashing up the camera.

After that, it was time to break out the code and get the door to the rest of the satellite open. I had decided that even if this somehow was simply a really elaborate and convincing trick to examine reactions to certain stimulus in a test environment, it was still far beyond what I had signed up for. One way or another I decided I was getting out of this damned experiment.

I opened the small safe that contained the passcode document and easily broke the seal on its container. I was desperate to get out of that door as soon as possible and took a few moments to memorize it.

E109GHT8.

I can still remember it vividly as I entered that code over and over in an attempt to get that locked door to open. Each time I painstakingly entered it with as much precision as I still had within me, and each time the password field read out what I had apparently typed in:

“No one is coming”

and the door remained closed.

And that was it. I was trapped alone in a tiny room floating in space deserted empty space. I had plenty of food and water so starvation wasn’t a danger, but sometime in the first week the clock stopped working.

With no timepiece and nothing left outside of the sun or moon keeping any sort of time at all became utterly impossible. If I had to guess how long I spent in that strange exile, I would say somewhere between three and six months. But that is based solely on my eating and sleeping patterns, which were largely fueled by despair and that quiet aching terror of being utterly forsaken. I couldn’t even read my books or watch anything as characters seemed dead and lifeless, the emptiness of their artificial existence made plain to me.

The hallucinations stopped. I did not even get the comfort of company in my delusions, though at some point the line between dreaming and reality seemed to blur. I’d be sleeping, strapped into my bed in the middle of the void, or at the same time floating through ancient graveyards, or the open empty sea. They weren’t hallucinations, though they were dreams, even if the cold did seem to seep out of them and into the bones of me.

I spent so long trying to get that door open, but nothing worked. The mechanisms and electronics were not accessible from my side. When I finally stopped trying it was the final abandoning of my hope. That was also when I noticed something else that alarmed me in a very different way.

I did some calculations and realized that my food and water levels did not seem to be depleting. For all the time I had been there, in what I could now only think of as my imprisonment, it did not seem like there had been any significant change in my supplies. No one could be restocking me, because there was no one but me there. The food remained static, then did that mean I could remain trapped in this place for the rest of my life, assuming I even still aged?

I began to very seriously consider the idea that I had died, and this was Hell. Given that worry, the way I finally escaped it could be considered ironic. I starved myself to death. Well, not to death, I suppose, given I’m alive enough to talk to you, but close enough.

I don’t know how long I just floated there strapped into my lonely cocoon of a bed, refusing to eat or drink, waiting for the end. After everything else, I had no guarantee it was even possible for me to die but I had to try. When I finally faded from consciousness for what I hoped was the last time, it was the greatest relief I have ever felt.

I don’t know exactly when I realized I wasn’t dead. There were various moments I faded back into consciousness and I know that I felt the re-entry very hard. But it is difficult to pin down clear thoughts before the hospital.

No one’s really given me an official account of what happened, aside from that it became known I was in serious danger of death, and my colleagues on the Daedalus retrieved me, and managed to keep me alive until the next opportunity to send me back down.

I’m not pushing to know more, not really. I know what happened. And no rational cover story that they could feed me is going to change it.

I haven’t followed up with Conrad and as far as I’m aware he hasn’t made any attempt to contact me. I was paid in full though, which was a surprise.

I wanted to tell someone what really happened for almost a year before I found your Institute. There’s nothing really to be done about it, I wanted to get it off my chest.

So thank you for letting me get it down on paper.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

While there’s plenty of media coverage of the launch of the Daedalus satellite in early 2007 by Stratosphere Group, a consortium of various scientific and aerospace companies, it seems the actual operation of the facility is guarded with a great deal more secrecy by the various organizations involved.

Martin was able to confirm that during its two years of operation it did have a total of three staff on board: Yan Kilbride, Manuela Dominguez, and Mr. Chilcott.

Beyond that, however, there’s little that can be retrieved from beyond the wall of corporate bureaucracy. Tim was, however, able to get a list of the businesses involved in the venture.

Three names stand out: Pinnacle Aerospace, majority owned by the Fairchild family; a large private investment by Nathaniel Lukas; and Optic Solutions Limited, a relatively benign-seeming company manufacturing specialist cameras for research and industrial application, who are nonetheless notable for having their business address listed as being in Ny Alesund in Norway.

I fear, however, that’s as much digging as I can do at the moment without drawing attention, so it may be wise to let the matter drop.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
NOT!SASHA
John?

ARCHIVIST
Um…

NOT!SASHA
What are you doing?

ARCHIVIST
Sash – um, I can’t seem to find a new file for the Hilltop Road case. I thought I gave it to you to follow up on the children?

NOT!SASHA
You did and I gave it back.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, right.

NOT!SASHA
Even if I hadn’t, I would very much prefer it if you stay out of my desk.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, of course, sorry. I didn’t realize you were still here or I would have asked.

NOT!SASHA
Of course.

ARCHIVIST
I’ll see if it’s with Tim then.

NOT!SASHA
Also, John. I have asked before.

ARCHIVIST
What?

NOT!SASHA
Please don’t record our conversations.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Stupid. I thought Sasha had left for the evening. I wanted to have a look in her desk for anything that might shed light on her recent weird behavior. I didn’t get much of a chance, but it all looked normal, except there are a few scraps of torn paper. They could be from files or just torn scrap paper, it’s hard to tell.

I’m at a loss. Why she would want to destroy files, though? Still I think I probably need to back off from Sasha for a while after this. I’ll just keep an eye from a distance for now.

I did find several pictures of her and her new boyfriend, though, which puts my mind somewhat at ease.

Well, mostly. There’s something about him that doesn’t seem quite right. Something about the smile, maybe.

I, I mean they’re all pictures of Sasha and Tom, as I’m told his name is, having fun together, but - it’s hard to put into words, exactly, but every one of them looks somehow like a stock photo.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Unsigned statement regarding potential cannibalism while attempting to travel the Oregon Trail. Original letter dated November the 10th, 1845. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I have accepted I shall not survive this. The cold bites through my skin and feels as though it cuts into my very soul, and I am so hungry that I can barely stand. But I shall not give in. I can hear him taunting me still. Tempting me. But I shall choose to die rather than take part in such an unholy meal. Nor shall I take my own life, whatever extremity my suffering may reach. I am certain my final reward will come soon, and I shall face my savior with a clear conscience and a heart full of faith. Pastor Lawrence once told me that there are no empty bellies in heaven, and I am sure that he is right.

I wonder if I shall see Benjamin there. I should hope so, for all his faults and his incessant chatter. And together with all those we have lost, I am sure we shall look down upon perdition, and watch Eustace Wick writhing in agony among the well-earned flames.

Speaking of flames, I must apologize about the state of the paper to whoever may be discovering this message. I’m having to write this close to what fire there is, both for light and to stop the ink from freezing. There will likely be some scorching but I should hope it remains legible.

We should never have attempted the Oregon Trail. I see that now. I should have stayed in Savannah and built what life I could, maybe accepted the proposal of Adam Hawthorne. He was a decade my senior, but I heard no complaints from his previous wife while she lived, and it would have been a better fate than to freeze to death in these mountains, listening to Benjamin’s incessant taunting.

But my life before had been hardship and travel, and there was a part of my soul that felt that such a thing was simply my lot. So when my father joined my mother in Heaven not three years after moving us to the small town of Savannah, Missouri, it felt as though moving again was what the good Lord intended for me.

It was then, as I had to choose between trying to scrape a living from 20 acres of Missouri soil that my father had left me, or forge out on my own, that Benjamin Carlisle kindly asked permission to repair his wagon on my land. I will not deny he was a handsome man. Even now, the cold has preserved that pleasing cast of his face, gaunt though he may be. I was somewhat taken with him, but had no further thoughts about it, being somewhat plain in my own appearance. It took me quite aback when I brought a jug of water to his fire that evening, and he asked me directly if there was anywhere in the town of Savannah where he might find a wife.

Well, this seemed to me something of a strange request, though I myself knew little of courting. Benjamin explained that he was set to be travelling up out of some joseph along the Oregon trail towards Willamette Valley, a lush paradise of the frontier. The settlers of Oregon country, he said, had offered land to those who might follow. 320 acres of land for the unmarried, he said, but a married settler could claim 640 acres. That, and the prospect of another pair of hands to help with the work of farming, was a great incentive.

All told, he said, if he was able to find himself a wife before he reached Oregon country, he very much intended to do so. Well, after he told me this, I explained my situation to him, and we were married by Pastor Lawrence the following day. Even now I can’t fully bring myself to regret that part of the events that led me here, and had we reached the Willamette Valley as planned, I believe we would have been far happier than most.

I had few real possessions to pack and little food left, but I took what I could into Benjamin’s wagon. It was late May when we began our trip, and had I known more about the route we were to take, I might have known that this was dangerously late to be starting such an expedition. But I did not.

In many ways, Benjamin was as impulsive in his travel plans as he was in choosing a wife, and it was only after we had been on the road for some time that I realized how ill-prepared he for many of the hardships of the trail. I never asked him exactly where he was from, or why he wished to settle in Oregon. Those few times I broached the subject, he would talk all sorts of circles around it, and I had some inkling that he might have been fleeing trouble back east. I never pressed the matter. I had a lot of gratitude to him for taking me along, sharing his food and his bed with me, and rescuing me, as I saw it, from a life of grief and Missouri dirt.

It became apparent as we traveled the blessings were not entirely one-sided. It turned out I was far more suited to the hardships of the trail than him, and far more skilled at keeping the wagon moving than he was. I nursed him through a fever as we crossed through Colorado, and more than once I even managed to avoid an attack by natives, securing the wagon in small ravine until the war party had passed by. All told, I feel I more than earned my bacon.

I still remember the first time Benjamin saw skulls near our campsite, those travelers before us who had not fared as well as we had. Poor man almost fainted. And I could not help but reflect that, were it not for me, he would likely have joined those poor departed souls. I decided not to share that particular reflection.

We reached the Laramie river and Fort John in October. It was a squalid little fur trading post in Wyoming, with thick wooden walls that were solid enough to keep out any war-minded natives, and there were all the signs that a great many people had recently passed through the place.

The manager, an officious man, who introduced himself as Bruce, told us that we had missed the chance to safely cross the Rockies, that the passes would be snowed up within the month. He said we could winter at Fort John if we had the food and money for it or we could turn round and leave. From his tone of voice, it sounded like he had not much care for which of the options we chose.

We were of course devastated and spent several days discussing our options and trying to make a decision as to the wisest course of action, though we knew that for every hour we spent in such conference our choices became fewer and the consequences sharper.

It was at that point we were approached by a man who introduced himself as Eustace Wick. He was a short, squat figure, broad of shoulder and with the rough, dark skin of one who has spent most of his life under the sun’s unforgiving glare. His long, shaggy beard was shot through with gray, but his eyes sparkled with a cunning and intelligence I would not have expected to see from such an unkempt face. He also possessed one other attribute which surprised me, though in hindsight it takes on a somewhat sinister light - he had in his mouth a full and healthy set of teeth.

Now, Mr. Eustace Wick inquired as to our purpose in Fort John and, speaking far more candidly than I was truly comfortable with, Benjamin explained to him our journey and our dilemma. But at the mention of the words Willamette Valley, the short man’s eyes lit up and a smile practically split his face in two for he was, so he said, the best guide since Sacagawea and could get us through the Rockies long before the snows hit with any force… for a price.

When he said this, he smiled and all the square and shining teeth in his mouth seemed to catch the light.

I was hesitant as I’d met plenty of hucksters and bandits who were keen to pass themselves off as guides and as Benjamin haggled the price my misgivings grew, for Eustace Wick seemed offer little in the way of resistance and we secured his services for only twenty dollars. Plenty of money to be sure, but for the services he was offering and the dangers involved it was practically nothing.

Unfortunately for all my consternation it soon became clear that Benjamin had made up his mind to hire the man. To be fair to him, we did not have the resources to winter in Fort John, and were we to try and make our way back, there was every possibility the weather would still turn deadly on us. We were caught between the devil and the sea, and Benjamin had determined that, guided by Eustace Wick, we were going to try and swim. The poor fool had no idea the devil was the one leading us into the water.

Nobody tried to stop us leaving, though it was clear from the looks upon them they believed us to be dead already. My own hopes were scarce higher, but the little man who now rode with the scaffold and joked as we traveled, keeping Benjamin in higher spirits than I had seen him in months. This began to fade as the cold air began to hit us and the paths through the rockies became steeper and narrower. The journey was hard but we pushed on for almost a week.

Eustace Wick seemed to be as good as his word, keeping us on those trails that the wagon could use without too much danger. The cold robbed us of sleep, though, and after those first days, the once beautiful vistas and rolling peaks of the mountains seemed to become jagged and vile ribs jutting from the carcass of the world and picked clean by vultures.

Benjamin became quiet. I became sullen. Eustace Wick became more aggravatingly jovial than before, and by the time the first snowflakes began to fall he was practically hooting with joy. My suspicions about his motives had begun to freeze into an icicle within my chest, hard and focused.

When we woke up one morning a week and a half into the journey to find one of our wagons wheels smashed and destroyed beyond repair, I could not find it in myself to be surprised. The snow was falling thickly by this point. We had already used all our replacement wheels over the many months of the journey. We were trapped there and we would surely die.

It was then that Eustace Wick appeared standing on a nearby rock that same big grin on his face. He told us that there looked to be a snowstorm coming but he had found a nearby cave where we could wait it out. He didn’t even pretend dismay of the state of the wagon. Benjamin and I followed him, and sure enough, there in the side of the mountain was a shallow but well hidden cave.

It’s hard to say at exactly what point I realized specifically that Eustace Wick was planning to eat us. It may have been that he made no mention of retrieving any food from the wagon when he led us to his den. It could have been the piles of firewood already neatly stacked up against the far wall cut into logs. It might just have been the way he looked at Benjamin with his square white teeth bared an unearthly smile.

But somewhere between the wagon and the cave I became convinced that our so-called guide but lured us up here with no intention short of killing us and eating our flesh. I had no time to communicate this thought to my husband however who still seemed woefully oblivious of the situation, and once we were inside the small cave there was no privacy in which to discuss it.

So I just had to sit there, watching Eustace Wick building a fire as Benjamin tried to suppress his shivers and make conversation with the man who he still did not realize had turned from our guide into our captor. I simply watched and waited as the storm began to descend outside, and the warmth of the fire was quickly overcome by the icy chill of the wind.

Night began to fall. The fire was the only light casting along dancing shadows upon the walls behind us. I could feel hunger gnawing at me and was sure that I was not the only one, but I had a strange thought that the bearded man squatting on the other side of the flames was waiting for someone to mention it, so I refused to do so. My husband of course had no such reservations, and began to bemoan our forgetfulness at leaving what little food we still had in the wagon.

Of this Eustace Wick’s smile, if it were even possible, got wider and he said that we had all the food we needed. He stared into the fire and began to mutter something. It sounded like a prayer. I think he was in his own demented way saying grace.

I remember the words exactly. He locked eyes with Benjamin and said, “Come, meat. Be my guest. And let thy gifts to me be blessed.”

As he said this, a silence fell across the cave. The wind died and the shadows on the wall stopped moving, as though they were watching the scene in rapt attention. Eustace Wick withdrew a long, sharp knife and stalked over to Benjamin, who made no move to defend himself. His eyes were wide, staring at the mad cannibal approaching him with a look of both fear and rapture. The whole scene was so utterly unreal that it took me almost a full second to remember and draw my gun.

All through this journey I had kept my father’s camp locked pistol hidden tucked inside my crinoline. Benjamin knew about it of course, but had obviously never mentioned it to Eustace. Had I had a possibility of reloading it I might have drawn it earlier but with only a single shot, and I a barely passable shooter, I knew that I needed to be sure of my moment.

As it turned out, I left it too late, for even as I placed the barrel to the temple of the foul murderer and pulled the trigger he drew the blade across my husband’s throat. There was a terrific bang, a splash of brain, and a spray of blood. The two men fell dead upon the floor and I found myself alone in the silence of the icy night. I’m sure I need not tell you the tears that I shed that night. Tears that were ice even before they touched the ground. I wept for my beautiful, stupid Benjamin and I wept for my own life, now most certainly lost at the cold and snow, and to hunger.

It was as this last thought passed unbidden through my mind that I heard it. Very faint, calling softly. The sound of Benjamin’s voice.

I called over to him, for a second overjoyed that he might be alive, but as soon as I touched his ice-cold skin already beginning to turn blue I knew that it could not be so. Despite this, his head began to turn towards me and his frozen eyes opened. His lips parted above the gaping red slash across his throat and he spoke.

“Eat me,” he said.

I leapt back, shaking my head, praying the Lord to rid me of these terrible visions, but his voice came again clearer and louder, this time begging me attend to eat him. He told me how good he would taste, better than any salted pork. I could cook him over the fire, he said, and the cold would keep him fresh for as long as I needed. I yelled at him, screamed at him to be quiet, for whatever devil had taken up inside to go back to hell, but it made no difference. Still he pleaded to be eaten.

It has been five days now and Benjamin still entreats me. He taunts and curses me by turns, calls me a coward who would rather die than be part of something greater than myself. The entrance to the cave has all but blocked with snow and even if I were to dig my way out there is nowhere for me to go. I don’t even know where whatever’s left of the wagon would be. I think I might try, though, now I have finished this account of the events that led up to my fate.

I hope whoever finds this does not judge us too harshly. We were simply seeking a better life. I leave this here in the oilskins of Eustace Wick in the hopes it may be protected from the depredations of winter. As for myself, I will try to dig my way out and get as far as I can.

I will not survive, but I hope the Lord understands it is not suicide. It is simply that I can no longer stand to be trapped here, where the corpse of my husband begs me to make it meat.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Certainly a grotesque tale, but I don’t have access to the sort of information required to verify any of the details provided by the unnamed Mrs. Carlisle. There is no record of any Eustace Wick that I could find. There is a Benjamin Carlisle mentioned in the 1838 census of Burke County, North Carolina, but that’s about it.

The prayer apparently spoken by Mr. Wick is a perversion of the old Lutheran grace: “Come, Lord Jesus, be our guest, and let thy gifts to us be blessed”. There was a noted Lutheran preacher by the name of Horatio Wick that is mentioned briefly in several histories of Massachusetts as rather violently falling out with his colleagues in the church, the Sacrament of the Eucharist, but he apparently drowned in 1832.

What interests me most is how this unsigned letter, if it is to be believed, made its way from an icebound cave in Wyoming or Idaho all the way to the personal collection of Jonah Magnus.

End recording.

[MUFFLED VOICES FROM A HALLWAY]
TIM
Look, I tried talking to Elias about it. It doesn’t seem to be doing good.

MARTIN
He’s under a lot of pressure. You know how messed up he’s been since Prentiss.

TIM
How messed up he’s been!?

MARTIN
[quickly] Of course, I’m sorry, sorry, I didn’t mean that you weren’t, just

TIM
No! Because I didn’t start stalking my coworkers.

MARTIN
Maybe try talking to him.

TIM
Sure, like he doesn’t already look at me like I’m a murderer.

MARTIN
Look, we just gotta let him work through this. I suggested therapy but he just says no.

TIM
Well, we need to do something.

MARTIN
Yeah, maybe.

The preceding conversation was overheard on the 19th of November, 2016. It reaffirms my current worries about Tim, though does go some way to reassure me that Martin is unlikely to be the culprit, especially following our earlier conversation.

[sigh] I need to be more careful.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Ronald Sinclair, regarding his years spent in a teenage halfway house on Hill Top Road, Oxford. Original statement given November 29th, 2005. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I should have come in to tell you people about this before, really. I heard about your institute back in the 80s, and I thought, “should I tell them?” But I didn’t. Thought you’d be all about old castles and ancient cairns, not have any time for weird goings-on in a suburban house in Oxford. And you’re academics as well so probably have more rigorous standards than one crackpot’s horror story.

Still, I saw last week that they were planning to build on that land again. Another house where the old Fielding place used to be. I don’t know, it’s not like you’d have any power to stop the construction, but I just… I needed to tell someone about it. And you were less likely to throw me out on my ear than the Planning Department of Oxford City Council.

You see, I lived with Raymond Fielding for almost three years, and believe me when I say that there is nothing good that can come from disturbing that dreadful place.

I was a bad kid. I’ve cleaned up my act in the 40-odd years since, but back then I was a little thug. Wasn’t entirely my fault - I came from a bad family. My father left before I was born, and I’m not sure how much you know about single motherhood in the late 40s, but it was clearly hard enough that my mother ended up with a serious alcohol problem.

I won’t go into the gory details of my childhood, but let’s just say it’s no surprise I was out of school and in the system before my 13th birthday. They tried a few places to set me straight. Back then these sort of places weren’t quite as enlightened, and the only life lesson I learned worth a damn was how to take a beating.

Finally, when I was 15, after the justice system was finished with me for the third time, I was given the chance to reenter society, and offered a place at a halfway house on Hill Top Road.

It’s weird. I’ve tried to get information on it so many times in the years since, but there’s nothing there. It’s like it never existed. I mean, this was a long way pre-digital, and files got lost plenty, but it still bothers me. The most traumatic thing that ever happened to me, and as far as any official record is concerned, I couldn’t have even been there.

Raymond Fielding was younger than I expected. Every other place, the people in charge had been old, leathery moralists with scowls on their faces and calluses on their knuckles. A lot of ex-military types who would lecture for hours on how their wasted life had been saved by the discipline of the army, and did their best to impose it on us.

Ray, as he insisted we call him, was different. He couldn’t have been much older than 30, and he let his brown hair grow long - not by today’s standards, I suppose, but it would have sent any of the crew-cut authoritarians into a red-faced rage. He was friendly and approachable, but didn’t seem like he was trying to be our friend. He was easygoing and smiled a lot. But there was something in his eyes that made me wary of trying to take advantage of him.

I didn’t like him from the start. The other adults I’d met on my journey through delinquency had been awful, and they’d run the spectrum from drippy, patronizing do-gooders to abusive thugs, but I’d always known. I would know what they were and where I stood with them. Ray was a mystery, and that unsettled me. Still, he wasn’t too strict with our comings and goings, and the other kids staying there seemed all right.

The one thing that surprised me was how rare it was to see anyone come back. Most other halfway houses I’d stayed in, you always had some of the older residents, those who had fallen into even worse criminal company, coming back occasionally, usually to sell drugs or do some recruiting.

Amphetamines were the thing back in the early 60s, so I was surprised when I moved into Hill Top Road and there wasn’t a purple Heart or a black bomber to be found. It didn’t seem like any alumni of Ray’s little family came back for a visit.

At the time, I just assumed it was a pretty nice neighborhood, so probably wasn’t the sort of place my kind - as I thought of it then - made a habit of visiting. I wasn’t wrong. The local residents hated us. We never really got into any proper trouble, but the sort of glares we got just for smoking on the street made me want to break a window sometimes.

I never did, though. I’m… not quite sure why I didn’t. To be honest, before I met Ray, I would have. There were plenty of broken windows in my past. There was something about living there, though, that dulled the urge.

My memories of a lot of my time there are, well, not exactly foggy, but feel almost like I’m watching someone else’s memories. I remember that it sometimes felt like I’d do things without actually deciding to do them. Like it was just muscle memory moving me, or a string gently guiding me.

It was never bad or dangerous stuff, just… things I wouldn’t normally have done, like brushing my teeth. I’m glad for it now I’ve passed 60, and teeth have stopped being something I take for granted. But at 15 the thought never even crossed my mind. But when I lived on Hill Top Road, I cleaned them every night, up and down and side to side, my arm moving like I didn’t even need to think about it.

The other kids living there were the same. At least, I think they were. I remember them being kind of dull - not that they were boring, exactly; we’d spend time together, and smoke and play games and the like. But there was something about them. As though there were some things that they said and did without anything behind them.

Occasionally, there’d be flashes of something. Like the time me and Dick Barrowdale snuck out after dark and set Mr. Hainsley’s bins on fire. But mostly they were quiet, almost placid. I’m sure they’d have said the same things about me, but at the time, nothing seemed amiss. I did what I did because it was what I was supposed to do. It never struck me to question it. I’m not sure I really recognize who I became while living at that house.

I did take up reading, though. There was a shop down in Kerry that kept a bucket of old pulp magazines marked down to 6 pence because they weren’t the latest issue. I used to spend whatever money I had down there, and then I’d sit under the tree in the back garden and read them cover to cover, over and over again. They were daft, really, but I loved them. In the summer, with the leaves giving you just enough shade to keep cool, I’d say I was happier than I’d ever been before then.

For the most part, Ray seemed content to stay out of our hair and leave us to our own devices. He had his own study in the basement, where he spent almost all his time, and usually trusted one of us to go to the grocer’s for food and sundries. Aside from church, which he made us attend with him every Sunday, he rarely went out at all. Occasionally, one of the other residents of the neighborhood would overcome their distaste for us long enough to ask how Ray was keeping, and whether he was well.

I gradually got the sense that, with the exception of the teenagers staying at his house, Raymond Fielding was something of a recluse. A well-liked recluse, certainly, but to see him leave the house on any day other than a Sunday was quite a remarkable thing.

Aside from church, there was one other regular activity that he always insisted we take part in. We generally ate our meals in the dining room - which was a bit cramped sometimes, as, when full, there were eight of us in the house aside from Ray, and the table was barely big enough.

On Sunday evenings, however, we’d all gather for the evening meal, and before we sat down to eat, he would remove the bright white tablecloth that covered it, and we’d gather around the dark wood. I remember it was carved in all sorts of strange swirling designs and patterns. It felt like if you picked a line, any line, you could follow it through to the center, to some deep truth, if only your eye could keep track of the strands that had caught it.

The center of the table looked, at first, like it was simply part of the wooden top, but if you looked closely, as I did so often, you could see an outline marking the very middle as a small, square box, carved with patterns just like the ones that laced their way over the rest of the table. I don’t remember how long we sat around the table those evenings, nor do I have any memory of what we might have eaten.

So I passed a couple of years in relative peace. I actually studied, stayed mostly out of trouble, and, as my 18th birthday approached, it looked like I might be able to find someone to teach me a decent trade. At that point, I was the oldest there by a few months, the others having left the house as they each turned 18 in turn. A suited man would come around - though, rarely the same one twice - Ray would sign some papers, and my former house sibling would head out the door and into the wide world. I didn’t see them after that, but at the time I didn’t really think anything of it. I assumed they were too busy trying to survive in a world that I had always considered deeply hostile.

Agnes came to the house two months before my birthday, in the middle of winter. Ray had never mentioned her, never held one of his little meetings to introduce her. She was just suddenly in the house one day, and no one really thought to question it. She was younger than the other kids, maybe ten or eleven years old. Didn’t talk much. She had a small, sharp face, and long brown hair, always braided into two tight pigtails, which she would twirl around her fingers whenever you tried to talk to her. I’ll admit, she was a bit spooky, looking back on it, but to be honest at the time I never really questioned it, the same way I never really questioned any of it.

She never came to church, though. Never sat around the dinner table when it was uncovered. Whenever Ray came in the room and she was in there, he would often just turn around and leave. And once, I could have sworn that he looked at her with something in his eyes that, even in my dull state, I recognized as fear.

I was so focused on my upcoming emancipation that I didn’t pay much attention to these developments, and I can’t tell you much more about Agnes, or what she did with her time in the house. All I know is that, when the man from the Children’s Committee came with the papers for Ray to sign, she was standing at the bottom of the stairs, watching me with an expression that looked almost playful.

Ray signed the documents to remand me fully back to state custody. The age of majority back then was twenty-one, but from eighteen I was expected to be finding work and accommodation on my own. It was all a bit surreal, watching pens sign my life into its different stages without holding any of them myself.

As the man in the suit told me to follow him in a clipped BBC accent, Agnes walked over, and gestured for me to lean down and listen to her. I did so, but instead of a conspiratorial whisper, she just gave me a quick kiss on the cheek, then ran off down the hall. I stood there for a moment, confused, before my temporary guardian once again instructed me to follow him.

I did so, and the cold air of the outside hit me like a slap across the face. We walked for a few minutes to the end of the road, and I felt as though my meager suitcase was almost frozen to my hand. He told me to wait there while he brought his car around, then disappeared down a side street.

I stood there as the bitter wind cut through my thin coat. The sun was out, but it didn’t do much to soften the sharpness of the February air as I waited.

Then, without warning, I wasn’t waiting anymore. I had turned around, put down my suitcase, and started walking back toward Raymond Fielding’s house. I didn’t want to go back. I had no reason to go back, but I had apparently decided to, anyway, because I knew that’s where I was going.

After two and a half years, I was rather used to this feeling, but there was something else there this time. Something in the back of my mind, a frantic, scuttling terror. It didn’t do any good, though. I was returning to Hill Top Road, no matter what I might feel about it. Choice didn’t even come into it.

The door was unlocked when I returned, and the house was quiet. My eyes darted around, looking for anyone who might be able to tell me what was going on, why the fine threads that pulled me through my life had dragged me back here. But I was alone. I walked over to the door that led down into the basement, into Ray’s study, and I was suddenly struck by the realization that nobody other than him had ever gone inside. At least, not to my knowledge.

Nonetheless, I reached up and turned the handle, twisted silently, and the door swung open, revealing a set of stairs leading down. Lightbulbs in spherical lampshades lit the way, and the thought struck me that, given how much time Ray spent down here, it was surprising how many cobwebs there were. They covered every corner, and lightly coated part of the walls. As I headed down the stairs, closing the door behind me, I saw even more, and came to the unsettling realization that what covered the bare bulbs were not in fact lampshades, but were instead thick clumps of cobweb.

The sight that greeted me when I finally reached the bottom of the stairs was about as far from what I had expected as it could possibly have been. Rather than a study filled with books, papers, desks, or the like, the room was large, and almost empty. The walls and ceiling were bare earth, and it looked more like a burrow than anything else.

In the center of the room stood that strange hypnotic table, though how he had gotten the heavy wooden thing down here was beyond me. The whole place was covered with a thick gossamer of spider’s web, and in the thick clumps around the edges of the chamber I saw shapes I recognised.

Doris Hardy. Dick Barrowdale. Greg Montgomery. The older ones who had left the house before I had.

They lay still now, wrapped in their sticky cocoons. Their bodies seemed warped and bloated in a way I didn’t recognize. But that’s only because at that point in my life, I had never before seen a spider egg sac.

In the chair sat Raymond Fielding. He looked the same as ever, that placid, unreadable smile still on his face. His brown leather coat seemed to shift around his body. The texture in the dim light seemed more like coarse fur.

He didn’t say anything, just watched as I continued to make my way towards the table. For all the terror strangling my heart at that moment at the discovery of the grotesque fate of my friends, I could still feel the bland, uncaring expression on my face, and found myself stood in front of the table as though nothing whatsoever was wrong.

I reached over and pulled the wooden square from the center of the table. On its own, it appeared to be a small wooden box, and the lid opened smoothly, as my hands moved in a practiced motion. Inside was an apple, green and fresh and still wet with morning dew.

I knew I was going to eat it. I could feel tears desperately trying to push themselves out of my eyes, but I instead decided not to cry. I placed the box down on the table, reached over, and picked up the apple.

All at once, my cheek erupted in pain. It was like someone had pressed a hot branding iron into my face, and I could swear that I heard the flesh sizzle as I let out a scream and fell to my knees.

I raised my hands to my face and realized in that moment two very important things. The first is that my face seemed to be untouched; I could feel no injury or burn. The second was that raising my hand had been a truly voluntary act. I had willed it myself, and whatever power had been gripping me, tugging me into its web, I was free of it.

I looked at Raymond Fielding, whose face finally had a real expression on it - one of confusion and anger. As he stood up, I saw small, twitching shapes tumbling out of his jacket, and I ran. I ran up those stairs, out the door, and away into the night. I didn’t look back, and to this day, I pray every night that the others down in the basement were already dead.

That’s it, really. Within two hours, I was out of Oxford, on the first train I could jump onto. I jumped off at Birmingham to avoid a ticket inspector. And that’s where I spent the next several years. Given my start in life, I’ve done very well for myself. I now have comfort, education, and money. I try to think that I’ve left my past behind, but that sort of denial doesn’t help me sleep. I only had my first truly restful night since that day after reading about the fire that burned the house to the ground.

But now they’re building there. They’re breaking ground that should be left burned and empty. And I’ve started to dream again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Mr. Sinclair was not exaggerating when he described the difficulties of tracking down information on any youth halfway house in Hill Top Road. Or Raymond Fielding more generally.

While I am naturally inclined to suspect conspiracy, Martin informs me that the nature of the gaps look like lost or damaged files. There are whole swathes of records missing from that period, not only related to Fielding, but many other similar institutions in the area. There’s no attempt to cover up or redirect it, either. It just looks like whichever cabinet housed those records got lost or damaged in the years since.

I have done my best to prevent Martin reading this statement in too much detail. I have no interest in having another argument about spiders. In fact, after reading this statement, I have no interest in thinking about spiders any more than is professionally required.

It raises further questions about the relationship between Raymond Fielding and this Agnes. I can only hope some answers lie elsewhere in the Archives. I wouldn’t be surprised. Between Ronald Sinclair, Ivo Lensik, and Father Burroughs, it appears there’s still much to learn about Hill Top Road.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Supplemental.

Everyone’s avoiding me. They’ve taken to working farther away from me than normal, and when I call them for any reason, they’re always keen to leave as soon as possible. They share furtive glances when they think I’m not looking. I don’t like it. I feel like they’re planning something.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Rosa Meyer, concerning a persistent feeling of being watched. Original statement given July 12, 1972. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
It’s still there, still watching me. There’s nowhere I can go, a place I can hide that it doesn’t keep looking at me. I don’t know why. No idea what it wants from me, or if it ever had any plans beyond just staring from wherever it is hiding. I can’t eat, I can’t sleep, it’s been months now, and it’s still there.

You can’t see it, I know. I can’t see it either, but that doesn’t matter, because it can see me. That’s what matters. I can feel its gaze burrowing into the back of my neck. Does it hate me? Does it just want me to keep living in fear? I don’t know why this is happening to me.

At first, I thought it was a person, some stalker who just kept hiding. I had this thought that if I kept feeling something was watching me, then it must be a person doing it. There must be someone following me. It’s not like I haven’t had stalkers before.

I started to scan the faces of everyone I passed, looking to see if I recognized them, if I’d seen them before anywhere. Did I recognize the man in the green overcoat from the bus this morning? Did that bike messenger loop around the road and pass me again? No. They never did. Never. No one was following me. But something was watching. It still is.

A strange thing is, it’s a feeling I should be used to. I’ve been watched by people for years. I present the Look East segment for BBC News almost every day - well, I used to. And on the other end of that camera, there were tens of thousands of people, but I never felt it from them. Sometimes, as I kept my eyes locked on that camera, reeling off the latest string of burglaries, I tried to feel it, tried to imagine all the people seeing me, watching me. Even then, even when I was trying, it was never more than a dead, empty lens. Maybe it’s just as well that I never felt it before.

I lost my job within two weeks. This feeling coming over me, I couldn’t concentrate, I couldn’t look at the camera, I couldn’t read the dead, empty words on the page. I ended up having something of an on-air breakdown. I guess it’s lucky you’re based in London, so you couldn’t have seen it.

I know the moment it started. Looking back, it all seems so arbitrary, like a switch suddenly being clicked on, and all at once my life is destroyed. It was three months ago, in April. I was doing inventory for some of my brother’s estate, it was largely up to me to take care of it after his death. My parents were taking it very hard, and weren’t well enough themselves to make the journey down to his small house in Southampton to try and organize his meager possessions.

I suppose I wasn’t in a good place to begin with. You’re not meant to die of a stroke that young. I mean, he was only 38, and he wasn’t exactly the healthiest, but it just seemed so unprovoked. I’ve always been quite religious, and believed that things happened for a reason, blessings ultimately came to the virtuous and misfortune to the wicked, but now I don’t know.

Perhaps you could say that my curiosity was the fault that brought this on me? But I didn’t open the box because I was curious, I opened it because I had to in order to fully inventory my dead brother’s possessions. I honestly don’t think that’s a transgression. It wasn’t even marked as special - no oak chests or triple-locked brass boxes, just another brown cardboard box like any other.

I don’t think that anything about it struck me as special? Looking back, I feel like it marked itself, that it drew my eye, and I would stare at it for longer than the other boxes piled up around his house. The place was so quiet, a lonely testament to Christopher’s isolation. He’d never married, and there seemed to be nothing in that dingy home that said he had any friends to speak of.

In a lot of ways, it reminded me of my own life. I have friends enough in Norwich, but no family except Christopher and my parents, though I do have my reasons. Still, looking through my late brother’s things led to the sort of reflection that makes me uncomfortable, and I was drinking more than I normally would.

It was my second day down there when I opened the box. I’d been going through all his old document boxes, and there were a lot. Christopher had worked for the history department at the University of Southampton. I don’t know what he specialized in - we never really talked about his work - but based on what I found in his study, he’d written a few books on the subject of ancient myths and fetishes, those objects that were believed by various cultures to have supernatural or religious power imbued within them.

His first book was on the holy cross of Christianity, and how it operates as a fetish within our culture. This offended me a little bit - I was worried he was trivializing a faith that, as far as I knew, he shared with me. Still, I tried to read a chapter of it on the use of the cross in the vampire myth, but it was very dry and, quite frankly, a bit dull. Most of the boxes were similar, full of notes and clippings and bits of research that meant absolutely nothing to me. I put these aside to check with Angus Cartwright, one of Christopher’s colleagues who I had contacted to have a look at what papers of his I couldn’t understand.

Some of the boxes, however, contained what I can only assume was practical research: fetish objects and totems from all around the world, small animal figures carved from bones, strings of glass beads tied together in intricate knotted patterns, grotesque quasi-human statuettes made of wood and old leather. Some of them were more than a little bit unsettling, but only one managed to send me spiraling into the place I am now.

As I said, it was one of the last boxes I opened on the second day. It was late, and I had already made my way through most of a bottle of wine. The more I think about it, the more I think that opening that box felt no different to any of the others. No hard feelings, no smells, nothing. It was just a box empty of everything except a single typewritten note and an old hand mirror.

It lay inside, utterly innocuous. If it was a trap, there was no way to tell.

I picked up the note first. The typing was neat, managed to be completely centered, even though the paper seemed to be a scrap that had been torn from a larger piece. It read, in all capitals:

“BEHIND YOU.”

I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you how unsettling that was. I turned and looked almost before I fully understood what I had read. There was a window behind me, with the view of the street below my brother’s study and the darkening sky above it. There was nothing there though, nobody walking along the street, no cars driving down it, nothing that seemed in any way out of place.

I looked back at the note, shrugged, and reached down for the mirror. It was a bit heavier than I’d expected, and under a thick layer of tarnish the frame seemed to be gold, or at least gold-plated. The glass itself was a bit grimy, but still seemed to be intact. I have no idea how old it was, or what period it might have been made in. Though I searched the box thoroughly, I couldn’t find anything that might explain where Christopher got it.

I looked in the mirror. I was a mess. Hair unwashed, eyes red from crying, lips patchy, stained a bruised purple from the wine. I hadn’t really had any time to take care of or even look at myself since I got to Christopher’s house, and this ancient hand mirror really showed it.

I sighed, shook my head, and prepared to check the next box when the angle on the mirror shifted in my hand slightly, and I screamed. It now reflected the window behind me, and I could see a face staring in. It was dark outside, and it was almost entirely in shadow, so I couldn’t tell you much about the features, but he was huge, seeming to take up most of the window behind me. The only thing about it that I could see with any real clarity were the eyes - bright, shining, bulging eyes, with pupils so dark it made me feel sick, drinking everything in, watching with a greedy intensity. I could feel its gaze burning into the back of my neck, feel its unblinking eyes.

My muscles locked in sudden terror, and the mirror tumbled out of my hand, spinning only once before it hit the floor and shattered into a thousand tiny shards.

Seven years’ bad luck, isn’t it? Maybe that’s it. Maybe I have to feel this horrid, aching panic of the eyes I know are following me for seven years before they finally leave. I hope not. But maybe even that’s wishful thinking. Maybe this is now my life forever, and it will never, ever stop.

I’ve tried to think whether I’d be able to go on if that was the case. I think I’d try, at least until my parents passed away. I couldn’t stand for them to lose both children.

Obviously, that was when my real problems began. I could write the face off as a brief but horrid hallucination, but the feeling of being under constant scrutiny and observation isn’t something I can explain away so easily. I’ve considered the possibility that I’m just going insane. Being watched is not an uncommon symptom of psychosis or schizophrenia, and I’ve been keeping an eye out for the other symptoms, but in all other ways I feel fine. It’s true I’m finding it hard to concentrate, but that’s only because I can’t sleep because they’re watching me. Those unseen eyes that hover everywhere and won’t let me rest.

I’m not mad, I’m sure I’m not mad. I still have what’s left of the mirror. It’s just a bent gold frame now. I tried to have new glass put in, but the only eyes it showed were mine.

I did talk to Angus, though. He seemed a little bit unnerved by the line of questioning I was pursuing - or maybe just by how intensely I was asking the questions - but he answered me. He didn’t recognize the mirror, but a few years ago, Christopher was looking into writing a book on the totems of what he called “outer cults”, small organized groups of worshippers whose beliefs weren’t simply deviations from paganism or other major religions, but seemed to focus on holy beings or concepts completely apart from what would be considered normal religious practice. Some seemed to have more in common with ancient shamanism than with organized hierarchical worship, and all were highly secretive.

Christopher had apparently collected several artifacts considered holy by certain of these sects, though I could find no details among his documents. Angus couldn’t be sure, but he believed that the mirror might have been one such object. Christopher had apparently abandoned the project about a year before his death, choosing instead to pursue a line of research into Inuit ceremonial carvings.

And here’s where we finally come to why I’m here. Because Angus told me that my brother wasn’t researching alone.

He had apparently logged several trips to London in order to consult with your Institute. I don’t know why or what about, and no one here seems to be able or willing to help me find out, but he was here. I’m not going to rest until I find out why. Not that I could rest anyway.

Those eyes still haunt my dreams and follow me through the waking world, even here. Especially here.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

A bit of an odd one, this. The mid-to-late twentieth century seems marginally better-filed than most of the archives, so we haven’t seen as many rogue statements cropping up from that period.

Most of the details from Miss Meyer’s statement seem to check out - Sasha got a confirmation from the BBC that she had indeed been one of the anchors for the Look East Evening News between 1970 and 72, until she suffered a nervous breakdown and damaged several cameras in their Norwich studio.

Martin’s checking with the University of Southampton also seems to confirm the details of Christopher Meyer’s life and death. I even tried to read one or two of his books, but they were a bit dry even for me, and didn’t appear to have any particular relevance to the case.

I’ve been unable to locate any evidence that he made use of the Institute’s library or consultation services, but even these days those records aren’t kept in as much detail as they really should be, so that doesn’t necessarily mean he wasn’t here.

What’s most interesting is what Tim found out about the final two decades of Miss Meyer’s life, before she died in prison in 1993. Following the statement, she apparently spent almost 12 years working low-level service jobs, until both her mother and father passed away of cancer and heart disease respectively.

There’s nothing notable about this period in any official records, but on October the 24th, 1984 she murdered a delivery van driver named Danilo Costich.

She unloaded the van’s normal cargo of filing paper and envelopes before filling it with several barrels of petrol. She was apprehended just south of Vauxhall Bridge after she jumped a red light and collided with another car. Luckily, the petrol did not ignite and she was picked up by police as she tried to flee the scene.

Originally charged with reckless driving, it didn’t take long for them to connect her to the murder of Mr. Costich, and she was given a sentence of 17 years in HMP Holloway. She died of pneumonia nine years later.

A bizarre and apparently motiveless crime. The one detail that still nags at me is that the company the Danilo Costich worked for, Paper Run Limited, is the same company that at the time supplied most of the stationery to the Magnus Institute. I have a nasty feeling about exactly where she was taking that petrol.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
You don’t mind if I record this, I trust?

TIM
Well to be honest, that’s kind of one of the things we wanted to talk about.

MARTIN
This is an intervention.

ARCHIVIST
Excuse me?

TIM
If you’d rather it was an official disciplinary hearing, Jon, we can arrange it.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Say your piece.

NOT!SASHA
We care about you, Jon, and you’ve been rather erratic since the Prentiss incident.

MARTIN
And we’d really like -

ARCHIVIST
To not have to fire you.

MARTIN
To make sure that you’re doing okay.

ARCHIVIST
Look, I understand I’ve been a bit… distant recently.

MARTIN
You were watching my house.

NOT!SASHA
You followed me on my lunch break and searched my desk.

MARTIN
You said was I lying about a murder.

ARCHIVIST
I - that is to say - I -

NOT!SASHA
Do you think we killed Gertrude?

ARCHIVIST
No, it’s…

…maybe. Maybe you did, I don’t know -

ELIAS
John, this is absurd. This goes far beyond an unhealthy work environment. I’ll admit it’s partly my fault for letting it get this bad, I should have started earlier.

TIM
You still don’t believe us, do you?

ARCHIVIST
It’s not that I don’t believe you it’s just - I mean, you could have done it!

TIM
Seriously, listen to yourself.

MARTIN
You’re not right.

ARCHIVIST
We’ve gone a long way beyond right, Martin, there are monsters out there, and I don’t know who or where they are or if any of you - if you want me to trust you, then I’m sorry, but I need evidence.

ELIAS
[sigh] Here. This is a copy of all the CCTV from the week Gertrude disappeared. The police finally finished cleaning it up and examining it, and returned a copy.

ARCHIVIST
[laughing] There aren’t any cameras in the Archive.

ELIAS
But there are everywhere else. Including all of the entrances into the Archive.

And across all of the feeds, it provides a remarkably detailed account of all of our movements over that week. Even yours.

ARCHIVIST
And you think this gives everyone an alibi?

ELIAS
The police certainly do, but feel free to check it yourself.

ARCHIVIST
[tersely] Thank you. I will.

NOT!SASHA
And let’s have no more of this paranoia.

[CLICK]
I’ve been examining the CCTV feeds Elias gave me. It… it does seem to provide everyone with a solid alibi, and no one is seen entering or exiting the archives except Gertrude. At least not before Elias goes down and discovers the blood.

Gertrude’s own movements are somewhat erratic, and she seems to be in and out of the Archives at all hours of the day and night, at some points looking rather disheveled.

That could stand closer scrutiny later but for now I… I can’t quite figure out whether this exoneration of my colleagues is more of a relief or a frustration.

At the very least it seems I have been… I have been rather unfair to them.

I just hope they haven’t entirely lost respect for me.

One thing that does nothing to ease my mind, though, is the renewed significance this puts on the tunnels beneath the Archive, as it seems more and more likely that whoever or whatever is living down there is the same thing that killed Gertrude.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
You don’t mind if I record this, do you?

DAISY
Knock yourself out.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

DAISY
‘course, if anyone else ever hears it…

ARCHIVIST
You’ll arrest me.

DAISY
[heh] No.

ARCHIVIST
…Right. Um, so, you came to deliver one of the tapes.

From Basira?

The uh, the, the audio tapes.

…

So… can I have it? Please?

DAISY
I’m thinking.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Um, I thought you needed me to check them?

DAISY
You don’t get it, do you?

ARCHIVIST
I-I’m not sure I follow.

DAISY
The tapes. Why she was giving them to you.

ARCHIVIST
She, uh. She wanted my help.

DAISY
[small, exasperated laugh/huff]

ARCHIVIST
You, uh, you didn’t have a tape player at your station.

DAISY
She thought you did it.

ARCHIVIST
What?!

DAISY
We both did.

ARCHIVIST
Wait, you thought I killed Gertrude?!

DAISY
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
Whuh - uh - I - why?

DAISY
[exasperated laugh/sigh] Look at you: you’re obsessed with it, jumpy as hell, and the only person who benefited from her death.

ARCHIVIST
Well uh, I… I mean. I didn’t.

DAISY
Yeah. I know.

ARCHIVIST
[stressed, exasperated exhalation]

DAISY
Finally got IT to clean up the CCTV for the week she disappeared. No cameras in the archive, but we got plenty of footage of you. Watched your movements that whole week. You didn’t kill her.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - what does this have to do with the tapes?

DAISY
Didn’t have enough to hold you. Basira was worried you were going to run.

ARCHIVIST
So, what - you fed me a couple of tapes to keep me around?

DAISY
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
And, now you know I’m innocent…?

DAISY
Hm. I reckon we should cut you off, but Basira’s soft. She likes you. [heh] No idea why. Maybe she keeps feeding you tapes, doesn’t involve me, I don’t plan on seeing or hearing anything about it.

ARCHIVIST
Well… thank you, Detective Tonner -

DAISY
Daisy.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you, Daisy.

DAISY
Sure.

ARCHIVIST
…If you don’t mind me asking, hhhow long have you been sectioned, now -

DAISY
[angrily] I do mind -

…

[quickly] 14 years.

ARCHIVIST
…I don’t suppose you’d like to make a statement?

DAISY
[sullen] ‘bout what?

ARCHIVIST
Whatever you like. 14 years - you must have seen a number of paranormal things.

DAISY
And you want me to tell you about them.

ARCHIVIST
Uh - IIIIII -

DAISY
Okay.

ARCHIVIST
[stammering] What?

DAISY
Okay. I’ll give you a statement about - how I got my first Section 31.

…You look surprised.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I was largely asking as a formality, Basira didn’t give the impression you were the sharing sort.

DAISY
Maybe you caught me in a good mood.

ARCHIVIST
Right, well… good. Do you need me to go over our non-disclosure policy -

DAISY
Not as long as you understand my policy: if it gets out, I’ll break every bone in your body.

ARCHIVIST
[sigh, muttering] There are worse things that could happen to them…

DAISY
[confused, possibly offended] What?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, nothing. Uh, statement of Detective Alice “Daisy” Tonner of the London Metropolitan Police. What’s the subject?

DAISY
Traffic stop of a delivery van on the M6 near Preston, afternoon of… 24th July, 2002.

ARCHIVIST
Recorded live from subject, 1st December, 2016.

Statement begins.

DAISY (STATEMENT)
This was a long time ago. I’d been police for two years. I wasn’t even with the Met back then. I was based up in Lancashire with a road policing unit. This is before the Highways Agency took most of the grunt work, so there was plenty to do. None of it much fun, but it needed doing. Booking drunk drivers were my favorite. I always hoped they’d refuse the breathalyzer, maybe even took a swing at me. Nothing funnier than a drunk asshole trying to avoid being arrested.

I usually rode with Isaac Masters. He’d been working with the RPU a lot longer than I had, and was even harsher than me. I know why, though. He tried to be a good police, give everyone a fair shot, but you see a lot of accidents - not much worse in the world than a really bad car crash. It gets to you. You get hard on people who don’t respect the road, and there are plenty of them out there.

It was raining that night, that heavy, thumping rain that means you can’t hear a damn thing. It crashes onto the roof like someone’s jumpin’ on it. Me and Zack was sitting in a lay-by, watching traffic and trying to drink coffee. We’d picked it up from a service station a few miles back, but it was one of those open-topped styrofoam cups. By the time we’d got back to the car, the rain had got in and left us with two cups of cold sludge.

So we were both in a pretty bad mood. It was maybe 1:00 in the afternoon, but you wouldn’t have known it. The clouds weren’t letting any sun through, and everything looked grey, wet and lifeless. Couldn’t even talk over the sound of rain on the roof, so we just sat there in silence, drinking lukewarm sludge.

The motorway was quieter than normal. A Wednesday afternoon doesn’t see a lot of traffic, but the rain usually brings out more cars. That day it was pretty empty. Everyone seemed to be driving careful on account of the rain, which was also not normal, and I was torn. Part of me wanted to spot some idiot who I could take my bad mood out on, when the other part of me didn’t want to get any wetter than I already was.

It looked like I wasn’t gonna get a choice, anyway - at least not until I saw the van. It was a beaten up old Citroën C15. There was some writing on the side, but I couldn’t see it clearly through the rain. It was either very dirty, or painted a nasty shade of off-white.

Most importantly, it was driving about 25 miles an hour. The limit is 70. There’s technically no minimum speed on a motorway, but the van didn’t show any signs of speeding up, and it was kind of strange. We had enough cause to stop it if we wanted. I wasn’t sure whether to let it go or not, but Zack had clearly made his decision already. He was in the driving seat and fired up the lights as we drove up behind it.

[FAINT STATIC/VIBRATION BEGINS TO RISE IN BACKGROUND, INITIALLY BARELY-PERCEPTIBLE]
The van glided to a stop on the hard shoulder at the side of the road and sat there. The headlights, which had been turned on for the rain, died. Then it just waited.

Zack was out first. The rain was so thick that he had to take his torch to see properly. The light passed over the van, and I could see rust creeping around the edges of the paneling.

We walked up to the driver’s side. I could see dark shapes from inside, but they weren’t moving. Up close, I could read the name on the side: “Breekon and Hope Deliveries.” It was covered in a thick layer of dirt that the rain couldn’t quite wash off.

[OMINOUS MUSICAL TONE. STATIC/VIBRATIONS NOW VERY AUDIBLE.]
Zack knocked on the door and it opened. The man who got out looked normal - so normal that these days I can’t really picture his face. Said his name was “Tom.” I wasn’t the one looking over his driving licence so I don’t know about second names.

From the other side two men climbed out. They were huge. Hard faces, like a pair of old stone statues, dressed in overalls and flat caps. They asked what was going on, speaking back and forth in Cockney accents so broad and fake-sounding that I thought they were putting them on for a laugh. I was about to lay into them for it when a sound cut me short.

Zack had been talking to “Tom,” who was making some bland explanation for his slow driving - caution, heavy rain, empty road, all that crap. They heard it, too, and he stopped mid-sentence to look at me.

[DEEP, INTENSE BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS CONTINUE]
From the back of the van, there was a sound of moaning. It sounded kind of like a moan of pain, but long and drawn-out. It went on for almost a full minute, and was almost, I don’t know, kind of musical. I looked at Tom and the fake Cockney passengers, but their faces were unreadable.

Zack gripped Tom firmly by the arm and led him to the rear doors of the van, demanding that he open it. He didn’t resist, just nodded, and got out a set of keys. He put one of them in the door, turned it, and the van opened.

I saw that the two big guys had walked up next to us, so I was gettin’ ready for trouble, but there’s no way I would have guessed what was in there.

It was a coffin. An old, wooden coffin. Rough, unvarnished. I could see splinters where the nails had been hammered in badly. Wrapped all around it was a thick metal chain ending in a heavy padlock. That weird moaning was coming from inside it. It was the only sound that cut through pounding rain.

I tensed up, reaching for my baton - if these people were kidnappers or worse, we would be in big trouble. I was ready for a fight, but they just stood there, not moving, staring at us. Everything about the situation felt wrong.

I looked over at Zack, and he seemed to be thinking the same thing. He looked over at the two men in overalls and told them to take it out, then looked over to Tom asking if he had a key to the padlock. Reaching into his jacket, the man who called himself Tom pulled out a large iron key and handed it to my partner. Didn’t look like the other keys.

I wanted to head back to the car and call in some backup, but Zack was a senior officer, and if he thought we should open it first, [inhale] I was gonna back his play.

Zack took the key and walked towards the coffin, which now lay on the wet tarmac, lit only by the headlights of our car. The moaning was louder now, almost drowning out the sound of the hammering rain. Water had begun to flow off the wood, but everything else about it was still.

As we got closer, I could see the words “Do Not Open” scratched into the surface of the wood. It didn’t look like my partner was paying them any attention, though. He gently placed the key into the lock, wincing slightly as he touched the metal, and turned it.

[BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS INTENSIFY FURTHER, WITH SOMEWHAT-CAVERNOUS WAVERING/SIGHING SOUNDS]
The chains snapped off like they were spring-loaded. They whipped around violently, and Zack jumped back, slipping and falling on his back. I brought my baton up, just in case the strangers made a move, but they were… motionless.

The moaning had stopped. The only sound was the creaking of hinges as the lid of the coffin began to move. It was slow, the gap appearing first as just a crack, before finally opening completely. It was too dark to see what was inside at first, but when I shone my torch inside, I heard Zack gasp. I think I did as well.

Inside of that wooden coffin, there was a staircase. It went down, apparently into the ground below, and seemed to go on as deep as I could see. They were steep, carved out of what looked like solid stone, and the rock that made up the walls didn’t match the wet tarmac around us, all the earth that would have been underneath it. It was completely impossible.

I tried to ask Tom or his companions about it, I yelled at them to explain what the hell was going on, but they just stood there, staring at it. So I hit one of them with my baton.

[ADDITION OF WOBBLY, HIGHER-PITCHED VIBRATIONS]
It was one of the large men in overalls, though I’m not sure which one. It was like hitting solid wood, and the blow jarred my arm badly, making me drop the only weapon I had. Even then he just stood there, staring at the casket. There was a sound of movement from behind me. I turned to see Isaac walking into the coffin, his torch shining into the hollow below. He’d already disappeared up to his waist, and there was this look on his face that I have never seen before - relaxed, like he was asleep.

I shouted for him, started to run but I felt a huge hand grip my shoulder. I grabbed it with my good arm, tried to escape it, but the grip was too strong. The texture of the flesh was like hard rubber. All I could do was watch as my partner kept walking into the earth, on stairs that couldn’t be there. After a few seconds, he was completely out of sight.

I expected to hear something - shouting, a, a scream, something - but it was still just the rain. The lid closed very slowly, and then he was gone. Just a coffin sitting on the hard shoulder of the M6.

The hand released my shoulder as the two men in overalls began to walk over and calmly wrap the chains back around it.

I felt a sudden burst of anger and picked up my baton. I lunged at them, but the one closest to me moved quicker than I would have thought possible. His fist slammed into my chest like a cannonball, and I felt a couple of ribs break. I collapsed to the floor, just lay there, as Tom and the two men locked the coffin back up, loaded it into the van, and drove off. I never saw Isaac Masters again.

[STATIC/VIBRATIONS DIE DOWN]
When I called it in, I was expecting a manhunt, an investigation, some kind of justice. It wasn’t like we didn’t have plenty of leads. Instead, I was handed a form I didn’t recognize, told to sign it, and then reassigned to the Met. Since then, it’s been one spook story after another.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Thank you. Um… are you quite all right?

DAISY
[angry] No. I never told that story to anyone except my old sergeant.

ARCHIVIST
I’m… not sure, I, er, uh -

DAISY
I should go.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, of course, I’ll see you out. Uh, there is one other thing - I’ve been meaning to ask Basira, but you might know better -

DAISY
I’m done.

ARCHIVIST
Oh - yes, it’s just, j - [quickly] do you know anything about vampires?

DAISY
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Oh!

Uh, it’s just - that -

DAISY
A while back, there were some problems. Arrest irregularities around a few missing-person cases. Suspects being released without proper interrogation. Recordings of the interviews showed the subject wouldn’t say a word, but the officers doing the interview would let them go anyway.

[STATIC/VIBRATIONS BEGIN]
I don’t know the details of the investigation, but there’s a new operating procedure now.

ARCHIVIST
Which would be…?

DAISY
Cases matching certain parameters have to be monitored by another officer outside the room by video. In the very specific circumstance where the suspect says nothing, but the interrogating officer acts as though they have, they’re immediately removed from the room. Then, they call me.

ARCHIVIST
Just you…?

DAISY
There are a few others around who do it, but I take care of a dozen or so precincts. I cuff the suspect’s hands and legs, drive them out into the middle of Epping Forest, and burn them to ashes. There’s never enough left to be a problem.

[ARCHIVIST CAN BE HEARD EXHALING IN HORROR]
I don’t know if they’re vampires, exactly, but that’s what we call them.

ARCHIVIST
Good lord… H-how many have you… taken care of?

DAISY
Mm… five in the last nine years.

ARCHIVIST
I see…

DAISY
[anxious, drawn] Don’t tell Basira. She doesn’t know about that procedure. I, I’m not sure how much she’d understand, she - she’s not - cut out for that kind of work.

ARCHIVIST
Of, of course I won’t -

DAISY
Don’t tell her any of this, okay? I was never here. If she wants to get you more tapes, that’s her business, but you keep this visit to yourself! Got that?!

ARCHIVIST
Uh, uh, uh, of course!

DAISY
Good.

[HARD, ABRUPT CLICK; DAISY TURNED IT OFF HERSELF]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

That was… an interesting interview. It seems we’re not done with sinister coffins just yet. The contents were surprising, to say the least, but don’t give any real clues as to its origin, purpose, or even its relationship with Breekon and Hope. Are they simply… couriers? Guardians? Hostages?

At least I also have confirmation that the vampires Trevor Herbert described are not purely figments of a drug-addled mind. I probably shouldn’t be too pleased to discover that there are even more violent hunters stalking us through the night, but there it is.

I’ll… admit to feeling a bit hurt by Basira’s true motivations. I suppose it’s hardly surprising, I have not been the most… stable over these last few months. Either way, I’ll not be bringing it up.

Even if I wasn’t genuinely somewhat afraid of Detective Tonner [nervous laugh] such a revelation would only harm our relationship, and I need those tapes. I can’t afford to have Gertrude’s time at the Institute disappear back into obscurity.

I’ll check the one I have, and then wait to hear from Basira. Or perhaps I should try to make contact…? I should really have got a, number or something. Well, that’s a matter for later. I need to go home. Try to get some sleep.

I just wish it wasn’t raining.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Well?

MARY
No need to rush me, Gertrude. I’m sure we’ve got all the time in the world. Besides, look at this dusty old thing. ‘spect it needs time to warm up. You don’t use it much anymore, do you?

GERTRUDE
Tea?

MARY
God, no. Hate the stuff.

GERTRUDE
Why are you here?

MARY
To make my statement, of course. I know the Institute and me haven’t always seen eye-to-eye, as it were, but I thought it was the least I could do.

GERTRUDE
Why now?

MARY
Why not? Big changes are coming, Gertrude! And I have to think about leaving something for posterity.

GERTRUDE
Fine. Subject is Mary Keay, recorded 3rd of July, 2008. What is it regarding?

MARY
What a question. I wonder? Plenty to choose from, I suppose.

GERTRUDE
Take your time.

MARY
Did I ever tell you about my first Leitner? Of course, this was before he was collecting them, so back then it was just a strange book. To think there was a time before he’d stamped them with his mark. I feel we must have called them something. Did we even know how many there were? Or did we just think of each as a thing all its own?

GERTRUDE
No. I don’t recall.

MARY
I met him a few times, you know. Must have been about fifteen years ago. Not long before his library burned down. He wasn’t all that impressive, to be honest. Shorter than I expected, and slower, somehow. I expected a whirlwind of intense energy, but he was gentle, methodical, perfectly pleasant to talk to.

Jurgen Leitner bored me. Whenever he came to look through my stuff, he’d spend almost a full minute on each book, just staring at it, examining the pages, and half the time leave without buying anything. Good riddance, if you ask me!

GERTRUDE
I wouldn’t know. I can’t say we ever crossed paths

MARY
I suppose not. You… don’t really go out and look for yourself, do you? Just wait here for the researchers’ leftovers.

GERTRUDE
[snort] It’s not that bad. Sometimes, someone will insist on giving me a statement directly. Though I rarely see the point.

MARY
Well. They don’t understand up there. They don’t know what this place is. You do, though, don’t you? We’re on the same side, really. Even if Elias disagrees.

GERTRUDE
If you say so. I believe you were giving me an account of your first encounter with one of the books.

MARY
Oh, of course. I was very young but I still remember it clear as day.

MARY (STATEMENT)
I was nine years old at the time, so it would have been… 1955? It was shortly after my idiot father had gotten himself killed, and my mother was still working for your Institute. We were living in Whitechapel back then, just off Turner Street. It wasn’t much, just a couple of rooms and a stove, but it was enough for us.

My mother worked long hours, as even back then the Institute didn’t pay their researchers well. And she supplemented our meagre income by working late at a factory on Grove Road. It made dressing gowns. Most of the time, I was left to my own devices. If she’d had any sense, my mother would have shocked your lot and gone to work at the factory full time. She would have learned a damn sight more.

Still, she believed in the work. And the one thing she was never neglectful of was what she called my “true studies.” I’m grateful to her, of course. I just wish that she’d got over a slavish devotion to you and your patron.

GERTRUDE
Well, you make a lot of assumptions, Mary. And I thought we were supposed to be on “the same side.”

MARY
Mm, yes. I suppose you’re right. I just like to diversify my portfolio a bit, as it were.

MARY (STATEMENT)
Often, during my studies, my mother would talk to me of the amazing arcane relics at your Institute. I’m sure you can imagine my disappointment when I finally got a look at the collection of mediocrity that you call your “artefact storage.”

But long before that, the idea of dark and fearful items of power had taken root in my young mind. I used to spend afternoons hunting through antique and junk shops. There were plenty to choose from, back then. Searching for anything strange, hunting for that thing that would call to me in a dark, secret voice. I never found it, of course. Not back then.

But when I saw Dr. Margaret Tellison moving in across the street, I knew immediately that there was something different about her. She was tall and thin, with long dark hair pulled into a severe bun. She wore a deep blue woolen dress, and carried an old leather briefcase, that seemed constantly on the verge of buckling, although she carried it with ease. I don’t know what exactly it was about her that stuck out to me, but as soon as I saw her, I knew she was what my mother had always talked about. She was touched by powers like those that watched over our family.

She had a small GP practice on Nelson Street, not far from the Royal London Hospital. Back then, Whitechapel was a heavily Jewish neighborhood, and there weren’t many Gentile doctors around, so it didn’t take Dr. Tellison long to build up a healthy client list.

I started to watch her. Whenever my mother was at work, I would sit myself on the steps opposite her practice, and watch the steady stream of patients.

Over the weeks, I started to notice something. The first time an ambulance was called to take one of her patients to the hospital, I didn’t think much of it. But when another one came the day afterwards, and another three days later, it started to occur to me that there was something more within those walls than I knew. I decided that I had to see for myself.

It had not gone unnoticed to me that many of Dr. Tellison’s clients did not bother to knock on her front door, simply entering with a soft call to announce themselves. Leaving the front door of her practice unlocked was no doubt good for her clients, but also provided me with easy access, when I finally overcame my trepidation.

I had paid great attention to how loud the door was, and timed my entry to the passing of a butcher’s truck, the roar of the engine covering the sound of the door. And then, just like that, I was inside. I cursed myself for not having spent more time trying to get a sense of the interior of the building, as I had not expected the waiting room to be so sparse. There were three uncomfortable-looking wooden chairs, several bookshelves filled with worn-looking paperbacks, and a dim bulb in a wire cage. There was only a single door leading further into the building, with a peeling coat of plain white paint. My plan had been to find somewhere to hide, but it didn’t look like there was anywhere actually to do so.

I remember I was stood there, still wondering what to do, when I heard heavy footsteps approaching from behind the door. I froze, looking around desperately for anywhere to hide myself, as the steps grew closer. I had just made the decision to flee the way I had come when the door opened. A short man with a bristling moustache walked out clutching a slip of paper that looked to be a prescription. He nodded to me curtly as he walked past, and left through the front door without saying a word.

I breathed a sigh of relief, and looked down the corridor he had come from. It was darker than I expected. The light bulb had either blown or been turned off, and there didn’t seem to be any windows to let in the faint glow of daylight. There was a staircase on one side, opposite a door labeled with Dr. Tellison’s name, which I assumed to be her office.

As I approached, I noticed a sizable crack in the wood below the staircase, and looking closer, saw a small door to an under-stairs storage area. Opening it as quietly as I could, I saw it was empty, and judging by the dust, didn’t look like it was ever used. I crawled inside and closed the door behind me, delighted to find my suspicions had been correct. Through the crack in the wood, I had a clear view of the doctor’s door, and, I hoped, what was behind it.

I didn’t have to wait long to find out. A few minutes after I’d settled in my hiding place, I saw the office door open and Dr. Tellison stepped out. She walked briskly into the waiting room, and, after a few seconds of muffled conversation, led an elderly man back into her office. She entered first, leaving her patient to close the door behind him. He did not, and I was treated to a good view of her workplace. It was tiled, clean and shining, with a large brown leather examination table, upon which the old man perched as she hovered around him, poking, measuring, and asking questions I couldn’t quite hear.

There was a small, sparse desk in one corner, a cabinet affixed to the wall that I assumed contained her medicines and equipment, and on the floor I could see a squat iron safe. I immediately knew that whatever fearful secrets drew me towards this doctor, they would be bound within that safe.

I saw nothing of importance that day, or the day after that, when I snuck back into the same space. I haunted the cramped shadows beneath that staircase for almost a week before it happened.

I was always careful to be home when my mother would be there, but that wasn’t difficult, and Dr. Tellison never seemed to lock the door to her practice. I remember it was Sunday, and the summer had made my hiding place almost intolerably hot. It must have been almost as warm in the office, as the doctor took to leaving the door open almost all day, allowing whatever draught might come to blow through the building. I saw her inspect and treat almost a dozen strangers over the course of the morning, but still there was no hint of anything untoward.

But shortly before she was due to close for the day, a short, matronly woman arrived. She had curly brown hair, seemed to be in perfect health, and smiled like a fool as she made her way into Dr. Tellison’s office. The doctor greeted her pleasantly enough, but as the check-up began I caught the quickest glimpse of something cruel in her eyes. A certain predatory look.

About ten minutes into the appointment, Dr. Tellison walked over to a cabinet and retrieved a small syringe. She talked amiably to her patient as she sterilized the vein and pushed the needle inside. She kept chatting away as the plunger went down. She even kept talking in that loud, friendly manner as the woman with the curly brown hair began to convulse violently.

Once. Twice. And then she was dead.

As I watched this, my heart was racing. I could lie and say that what I saw made me afraid, but I think we both know the thrill of watching that murder inspired a very different feeling within me. A dark, vicious thing that to this day I can’t fully name. But it was beautiful, and strange.

Though what happened next was even stranger. Dr. Tellison lifted the still warm-body of her patient fully onto the table, before cutting through the fabric of the dress with a pair of shears, exposing an expanse of skin on the woman’s back.

Then she opened the safe. 24-18-3-50, and then the key. I only had to watch her do it once. Inside, I saw two books, one small and bound in leather, the other large and misshapen.

As she retrieved the larger of the two, she brushed away what looked like to be a small pile of animal bones, and picked up a wickedly sharp-looking fountain pen. She leaned over the still form on the table and began to write, not in the book, but on the flesh of the woman she had killed. I could see even from my hiding place her handwriting was cramped and messy, leaving some of the blue ink flowing off her subject like blood.

After almost twenty minutes of hurried writing, she stepped back, apparently waiting for the ink to dry. She then retrieved a clean scalpel from her cabinet, and, with a care she had not given the writing, she began to cut through the dead woman’s back, peeling away the skin upon which she had written and leaving behind a small patch of flayed flesh. She hung it, still dripping, upon a hook that I hadn’t noticed on the wall, then stepped over to the phone, and made a call.

The ambulance arrived so quickly I wondered if they’d been waiting for her. Three men in the uniform of the London Ambulance Service entered. They wore sullen, bitter expressions, and exchanged no words with Dr. Tellison as they wrapped the woman in a body bag and took her outside.

The doctor handed the oldest of them an envelope that I can only assume contained a large amount of money, and they left. I’m quite certain they never even went near the hospital.

It was now dark outside, and I knew my mother would be worried, but I could not leave unnoticed. Nor did I want to, while there was still a chance to watch more of this strange ritual.

As the skin dried upon its hook, the doctor opened the large book, and I saw its thick pages were roughly stitched to the spine with coarse thread. As she turned those pages, they plopped with an unmistakable softness.

She stopped at one page, seemingly at random, near the end of the book, and began to read aloud, her thin finger tracing the lines of text I could not see.

As she spoke, I felt the air grow thick and heavy, a scent like wet dirt rolling through the building and settling in my chest. I don’t know exactly when he appeared. In fact, even now, I’m still not able to pinpoint the moment they arrive - like falling asleep, it has simply happened already.

The old man who now stood before Dr. Tellison was familiar to me, even though I didn’t know his name. One of her patients, I remembered, who’d been taken away in an ambulance some three weeks before. There he stood, hunched and cowering. He spoke in a cracked voice, begging her to release him, demanding to know what was happening. In return, she was questioning him about his will, about his bank details, or where he had hidden money.

I couldn’t believe it - a power like this, and she was using it to try and make money. It sickened me. It still does.

I knew then that she didn’t deserve the book.

After she dismissed the old man, she collapsed into her desk chair, exhausted, and fell asleep.

I took my father’s straight razor from my pocket. It was my most prized possession, and all I had left of him after he used it to cut his own throat. The only sensible decision he ever made.

I crawled from my hiding place so slowly, so quietly, she barely even stirred as the blade glided through her windpipe. I’d never killed anyone before. I didn’t particularly enjoy it. My inclinations, predictably, were more toward watching than doing the deed myself.

Still, there was some satisfaction in the end. I did try to bind her, but it didn’t go quite right, and her page was a dreadful mess. I can’t imagine she enjoys it there at all. It took a lot more practice to get it right - not to mention learning Sanskrit - but I got there, in the end.

After a lifetime, I know all its secrets, save one. And I have a pretty good idea about how to find that.

GERTRUDE
That does explain why you broke with the Institute. Who does the book come from?

MARY
The End, of course. I could never truly serve it - I just don’t find death that interesting. But I’ve always found a singular devotion far too restrictive. Just ask Eric. Or what’s left of him.

GERTRUDE
What about the other book? The smaller one.

MARY
Just a bit of viscera. Poems about dying animals, also in Sanskrit. Drops a lot of bones. I don’t even think it has a real title. Pointless, really. I eventually sold it to Leitner - though it came back to me after the attack.

GERTRUDE
I should really tell Elias about this.

MARY
By all means! He’s not exactly big on action though, is he. He’ll just be happy I gave a statement.

GERTRUDE
And do you have any proof of this? Your “magic book.”

MARY
Here, you can keep this page. I made sure it was in English.

GERTRUDE
…

Who… Who is it?

MARY
A surprise, dear! Just make sure you’re alone when you read it.

Goodbye, Gertrude. Wish me luck.

[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
GERTRUDE
Well. I, I don’t really know what to add to that. If what she says is true, I should think carefully before reading this page aloud. I should probably destroy it… though, I do rather hate the smell of burning skin.

Anyway, that’s a decision for another day.

[SOUND OF WOOD CREAKING]
I could rather do with a cup of tea, I think.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
There’s a lot here. In many ways, the context this gives Mary Keay’s odd relationship with death is the least interesting part of it. I knew that her family was connected to Jonah Magnus and the Institute somehow, but I had no idea that Gertrude was involved. Even if they didn’t like each other. Maybe I should have known.

Elias might not have killed her, but there is a lot he’s not telling me. I’m afraid to ask, though. The Magnus Institute is not what it appears to be, and until I know what it is, and what it’s for, there’s no way I’m letting Elias know how much I’m aware of.

But in spite of all that, I’m strangely excited. Because what sticks out to me, more than anything else in that tape, is the very distinctive floorboard at the end. One that hasn’t changed in the eight years since this statement was given. There’s never been any reason to look closely at a random section of floor. This bit wasn’t even breached by any of the worms… because it had Gertrude’s hidden compartment beneath it.

[SOUND OF WOOD CREAKING]
Hm. No strange skin page. But there is a laptop, and a key. I wonder what it opens.

End supplement.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Erin Gallagher-Nelson, regarding an urban exploration trip beneath Saint Paul’s Church, West Hackney. Original statement given March 31st, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I’m sure you know what urban exploring is. I’m sure you’ve had plenty of amateur yahoos in here who stumble across a ghost in some old factory, so I’ll spare you the breakdown of how it works. And if you don’t know what it is, well, the Internet’s a thing. Look it up.

I’m about as close to a professional as you can get out of what’s basically trespass as a sport. I work as a photographer, and if I play my cards right, I can get more money from an abandoned pump station than from shooting some spoiled human Barbie for “Self-Hate Monthly,” or whatever. It’s always been me and Luke Nelson. He was my wife’s brother, and did all the lighting for our shoots. At least, until he was eaten by the darkness last week.

That’s why I’m here: because I didn’t dream that. It happened. I don’t care what Steph says, I don’t need to talk to a shrink, I need to talk to you.

We were underneath Saint Paul’s Church in West Hackney. Horrid, boxy building, really makes you wonder about God’s housing standards? I mean, I’m just saying, if it was my house, I’d be pretty pissed. Still, I guess if He didn’t want it, he should have protected its predecessor from Nazi bombs, because Saint Paul’s used to be St. James before it got blitzed all the way to rubble.

Everyone always forgets how much London is under London. I mean, it’s not as bad as somewhere like Edinburgh, where they literally buried half the city and built a new one on top - but some places it’s not too far from it. And I’d been doing a lot of research into Saint Paul’s-That-Used-To-Be-Saint James, because it looked like it might be exactly one such a place.

Plans of the drainage and underground of the neighbourhood seemed to indicate that there was a large subterranean area directly beneath Saint Paul’s that appeared to be avoided by all public works - yet the plans for the modern church didn’t indicate anything below ground level.

What this told me was that the old church of Saint James probably had quite a sizable underground presence, which hadn’t been completely destroyed by the bombs. And which its inheritor didn’t use.

Early- to mid-19th-century Victorian vaults, undisturbed for 70 years? It was exactly the sort of thing that’s in vogue at the moment with a certain section of art-y magazines, and I was sure I could sell a few to Getty and a handful of other stock photo sites. And hey, it wasn’t like I hadn’t broken into a church before.

Luckily, Saint Paul’s West Hackney was Church of England, meaning they didn’t lock up as tight as some places. Catholic churches can be a real pain, as they actually have some valuables inside that need to be protected? But this, like most C-of-E, was plain and unadorned inside. So while they took plenty of care with the offices, they weren’t so conscientious about locking up the main church building, ‘cause quite frankly, there was nothing to steal - unless you like hymn books.

It took me and Luke less than a minute to get inside. It was last Tuesday, the 25th. I suppose, technically, it was Wednesday the 26th, as it was well past midnight when we made our move. Once we were in, we kept our torches low, stowed our equipment, and went looking for anything that might get us deeper inside.

At first it looked like we might have been mistaken, and there was no way beneath. But then Luke spotted what looked like a removable panel in the floor just off to the right of what passed for a podium. It was heavier than it looked, but after a bit of work with the crowbar, it came off.

It didn’t look like it had been removed in decades - maybe not since the new church was built. But what surprised me was the air that came out when it shifted. It hissed, like a long-held breath, and the air that rose up from that hole was icy cold, and damp. Not unexpected, but what did surprise me was how clean it smelled. Like an autumn night after the rain.

[LOW BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS BECOME NOTICEABLE]
There was no ladder or stairs down, but we’d brought plenty of rope, so in we went. The gloom seemed to swallow us. I would have sworn that at times I could feel it physically pressing against me.

As it turned out, it was only a couple of metres down to the floor of the underground tunnel, and our flashlights showed exactly what I had hoped for: old Victorian brickwork.

The passage stretching away from us in both directions was absolutely perfect, and I wasted no time in setting up a few shots, while Luke placed the lighting rigs. Down there, the flashes seemed almost blinding, but I was sure I was getting some excellent shots. It was only when I had a quick glance through them on the screen of my SLR that I began to get irritated. Clearly, Luke had been standing in front of the light when I had started to shoot.

In every single image, where the far wall was lit by the bright lights, you could see the clear shape of a person’s shadow.

I got into quite an argument with Luke about it. He insisted that he’d never make such a rookie move. I told him that he could argue with me, but not with the camera. Eventually, he stormed off to go exploring further on.

I took another picture before I followed him. The shadow was still there, and it seemed to be ever so slightly closer.

I don’t know why I ignored it. The human mind is amazingly adept at ignoring things that don’t make sense, that it doesn’t want to see. I convinced myself it was a quirk of the angles of that location. I didn’t even let myself entertain the thought that it could be a problem with my extremely-expensive camera, so I definitely didn’t consider the possibility of a supernatural explanation.

I followed Luke further on until, after about 20 minutes, we came to the ruins of a chamber of some sort. The roof had collapsed, probably from the bombing that had destroyed Saint James Church, and the rubble blocked off most of it. It looked like it had once been a circular room, and either side of the entrance, I could see doorways blocked with fallen stone.

There was no way we’d be able to shift enough debris to access them, but it was strange: as the torch beams played across them, even with most of them completely covered in collapsed masonry, they still didn’t seem as dark as the corridor we’d come from.

I took some photos. The composition of the place was excellent, and the blocked doorways had an odd sort of stark grandeur to them. They were certainly well-made, if they managed to survive what looked to be a direct hit by a German bomb. I checked the photos, and there were no shadows, which was something of a relief.

We headed back the other way. When we reached our ropes hanging down from the hole above us, Luke started to have some concerns. Well, I say concerns: he wanted out of there. He wanted us to pack up and climb out and leave, telling me he was getting weird vibes from the place, and was trying to convince me we’d seen enough. Looking up at that bright square, lit invitingly with the moon shining from church windows, I was half-tempted to agree with him.

The trouble was that, due to the problems with the first shoot, I had one, maybe two pictures of the quality I could do anything with, and that wasn’t nearly enough. I told him bluntly that I didn’t have enough, and if I didn’t get paid, he didn’t get paid. I saw the conflict on his face: he wanted to get out of there, sure, but apparently not as much as he wanted to make rent.

So: on we went, further into the tunnel. I don’t know how far we went. I stopped every 10 meters or so to set up and try to get a good picture, but the shadows were back, and worse than before. Now there’d be two or three of them in some pictures. It wasn’t quite as clearly a human silhouette, so I managed to tell myself that it must be a quirk of how the tunnel reflected the light - even though, looking back, that makes no sense whatsoever.

Still, I kept going, hoping to find somewhere where I could get some shots of the stark, gloomy tunnel, with bricks so black they almost looked like coal. We’d move, set up, shoot, check, and then I’d swear at my camera. I don’t know how many times we did this. Luke got jumpier and jumpier the whole way.

Didn’t feel like much more than 10 minutes we’d been doing it, but when I checked my watch, we’d been down there for almost two hours. We had finally come to the end of the path, and it was just that: an end. A blank wall of bricks indicating the stopping of the tunnel that seemed to go under a good deal of Hackney.

At this point, I at last decided to write the whole thing off and head back. It was as I turned to Luke to tell him this, that my torch died. There was no fanfare: it just fizzled for a second, then turned off with a faint pop. I looked over to Luke about to ask him to pass me the spare batteries - when I saw his face. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anyone as scared as he was at that moment. Then his torch went out as well, and there was nothing but darkness.

I could hear him fumbling for something that I assumed was the camera lights, and a second later I heard the click… click… click of him trying to turn them on. Nothing happened. He kept clicking the switches, on and on, and I could feel his desperation, but we were still trapped in the pitch-black.

Eventually, he stopped, and we just stood there. I wanted to say something reassuring, to reach out and let him know I was still there, but I was terrified of breaking the silence. There was just his breathing, labored and scared. I became aware of my own breath: quick, and betraying the panic I was trying to pretend I wasn’t feeling.

And then I heard it: the third set of breathing. It was quiet, at first, long and slow, and very deliberate. The more I listened, the louder it seemed to become, as though whoever was down here with us was making sure we could hear it. And then another set of breaths joined it, deep and throaty. And a fifth - a sixth - then more. We were surrounded on all sides by the sound of breathing, getting louder, getting closer.

Luke let out a small whimper, and all together, they stopped. In their place, there came a scraping sound, something metal, that sounded like being dragged across the bricks, far away behind us, but getting closer, and fast. It was joined by a heavy, thumping tread: footsteps coming towards us, rhythmic and unhurried.

I almost thought it could be my heartbeat, pounding in my ears - but the echo assured me it was coming from down the tunnel. Then the scraping came again, now from the other direction, and I sank to the floor, clutching my camera to my chest like some sort of protective talisman.

It was silent, once again.

The noise that broke the stillness this time is the one that is still ringing in my ears. It was far more dreadful than the others because of how familiar it was - though I had never heard it in such a manner before. It was Luke’s voice, and it was screaming in agony, a shrill, gut-wrenching screech of pain and fear that wiped away all thought in a second and replaced it with blind panic. I wanted to run, but my legs had locked up.

Somewhere in my mind, I remembered the flash on my camera, and my fingers instinctively flicked the switch.

As I pressed the button, the screaming stopped, with a wet snap, and for the worst moment of my life, an explosion of light shot through the darkness.

I saw Luke hanging in the air. There was nobody around him, but on the wall, in stark, black outlines, I saw two long, thin shadows standing beside him. On each, I saw one spindly arm gripping his shadow by the shoulders, while the other held up the shadow of his torn-off head.

In front of me, the real one just hung there, dangling as if by some invisible thread, blood dripping onto the body below it. His eyes were staring at me as though pleading for my feeble, flashing camera to save him. I screamed.

The next thing I remember was the painfully-bright light of a dozen torches on my face. It was the rector of Saint Paul’s, and a small group of what I assumed to be parishioners. He didn’t say a word as he gently led me back towards the entrance. I looked around to see if Luke’s body was there, but I knew deep down that the darkness had eaten him. He was gone.

The rector was very understanding, though I wasn’t making much sense. He spoke soft words of reassurance, brought me out into the sick pale blue of dawn, and called an ambulance to look me over. I didn’t get his name, and it was only after I’d reached the hospital, I realized he had taken my camera.

Since then, I’ve been under observation in the hospital. Nobody listens to my story, and Luke has been officially listed as missing. Steph has been very supportive, but I can see the pain in her eyes. She knows I was the last one to see her brother, and it eats at her. I don’t really know what to do now - except to keep the lights on.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

It should come as no surprise to me by now that the foundation stone of the original Church of Saint James in West Hackney was laid on the 17th November, 1821 by Sir Robert Smirke. Even so, I was very much hoping to find at least one architectural oddity lurking beneath the streets of London that did not bear the mark of him or his students.

This particular encounter doesn’t seem to have much in common with manifestations from similar buildings. We’ve had something of a spectrum from him and his ilk: cobwebs entombing, difficulty in navigation, and now a violent, murderous dark.

My first thought was the People’s Church of the Divine Host, as they seem to have some affinity to the darkness, but I can find a no connection of any sort between them and West Hackney Church.

Not that any of the staff there were very helpful. Every one of them claims to have no memory of encountering Miss Gallagher-Nelson, despite hospital admission records clearly stating she was picked up from there on the morning of the 26th March, 2014. Tim is convinced that at least some of them are lying, but there’s little we can do to gain any information they don’t wish to volunteer.

We’ve been unable to follow up with Miss Gallagher-Nelson. All attempts to contact her have been prevented by her wife, Stephanie Gallagher-Nelson, who has made it abundantly clear that we are not welcome, and are to attempt no further contact.

Luke Nelson remains missing.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

[frustrated, speaking quickly] I have been attempting to access Gertrude’s laptop, but have thus far had no luck. None of the obvious passwords I’ve tried have been successful, and I am unsure who can provide both assistance and discretion. There may be further clues on the other tapes, but so far I’ve had no word from Basira! I’m so close to finding something, maybe I should just go down there -

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Excuse me, do you have a moment?

ARCHIVIST
Miss King - uh - how did you, how did you get in here…?

MELANIE
The new girl let me in. Are you all right?

ARCHIVIST
Hm? Sorry?

MELANIE
You look like hell.

ARCHIVIST
It’s been a hard few months. Look, can I help you, because if you’re just after another shouting match -

MELANIE
No! I, um - I actually do need your help.

ARCHIVIST
…

Hm. Interesting.

MELANIE
All right, can you not be an arsehole about it? I just need access to your library.

ARCHIVIST
So talk to Diana, she runs the place.

MELANIE
Yes, I don’t exactly have the academic credentials you guys demand, so I apparently need someone to vouch for me -

[JOHN SIGHS]
- and you’re basically the closest thing I have to a friend here.

ARCHIVIST
[heh] We’ve spoken once, and we ended up screaming at each other -

MELANIE
Yes! And that’s more than I have with anyone else here. Also, uh, Georgie actually has some nice things to say about you. That came as a surprise. You didn’t even tell me you knew her.

ARCHIVIST
I - it was a long time ago. Before she started doing “What the Ghost.”

[MELANIE GOES ‘HM’]
It’s a surprise to me as well, to be honest. We didn’t exactly part on the best of terms…

[MELANIE GOES ‘HM’ MORE EMPHATICALLY]
What exactly do you need from us, anyway? Can’t your showbiz friends help you?

MELANIE
No, I’m, uh - most of, most of them won’t talk to me anymore.

ARCHIVIST
What happened? Did word get out that you’ve given a statement to us, what was it, “credulous idiots?”

MELANIE
Not exactly. Look, in my business, your reputation is all that you have. The industry is mainly full of skeptics pretending to be believers pretending to be skeptics -

ARCHIVIST
I think the word you’re looking for is “charlatans” -

MELANIE
Can you not? Please? I’m trying to -

[distressed] …look, Ghost Hunt UK split up. I mean, not formally, but well, you know, Pete was always a flake to begin with, and the others just drifted away…

ARCHIVIST
[more gently] I’m sorry to hear that. I noticed you weren’t updating anymore.

MELANIE
I tried to get a new crew together - but it was tough. I took to going on expeditions solo, but I don’t really have the skills to get usable footage. I saw a few weird things… then I, then I got arrested.

ARCHIVIST
…Go on.

MELANIE
Yes, I… broke into the train graveyard up near Rotherham. Got picked up by his security, and I - I wasn’t doing well. When I was being thrown out, some late-night dog walker got a video of me screaming at them about ghosts. [humorless laugh] When it went online…

ARCHIVIST
Your all-important professional reputation went with it.

MELANIE
Yes. Look, I have leads that I really need to follow up, but as far as my colleagues are concerned, these days, I’m the ghost.

ARCHIVIST
Well, for what it’s worth, I’m sorry. I do know what it’s like to lack the respect of your peers. I’ll have a word with Diana, see if I can get you into the library.

MELANIE
Thank you. Seriously. Now, uh, how do I get out of this place?

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Sasha can show you out.

MELANIE
Sasha…?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. She should be around here somewhere.

MELANIE
Oh. Right…

Well, let me know about the library, okay?

[DOOR OPENS]
ARCHIVIST
Will do.

[DOOR CLOSES]
…What a strange woman.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Donna Gwynne, regarding an unlicensed archeological dig near the Red Sea in Egypt.

Original statement given May 20th, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
You’ll forgive me if I’m vague on the details. I have to be. The job I was on at the time was a long way from legal, and even if the courts could never prove it, let’s just say the people I worked for take privacy very seriously indeed. All names I give here aside from my own are aliases

It’s hard to get a job in archaeology these days. I mean, I guess it always was, but education funding is being squeezed across the board and the fact is, most higher up positions in the fields tend to only open up once the previous occupant dies.

It’s sad but if you look at a full lecture hall on the archeology course of any major university, you can be pretty sure that none of the people you’re looking at are going to end up doing it for a living. A few might get assistant positions on a project or two but the long, thankless hours and endless grind to climb a ladder already full up with old posh men will probably change their minds.

I suppose what I’m saying is I was never going to be a real archeologist, so when I got a chance to do some unlicensed work I figured it was either that or trained to be a teacher, and I hate children.

See the thing is that there’s a lot of very valuable stuff in the ground. Ancient artifacts for God and knowledge, all that good stuff, but acquiring it takes a lot of time a lot of money and a lot of fiddly licenses and permissions. Not to mention that governments can get very grabby when it comes to the prizes of antiquity. You can’t take three steps in this field without some wannabe Indiana Jones declaring something or other belongs in a museum, but museums have very limited budgets and the private market has a never-ending appetite for valuable ancient treasures.

So you have my industry, which is like normal archaeology but a bit more… preform. I like to think of myself as a rogue archaeologist but I think most people would just call me a grave robber, which is daft because half the time it isn’t even graves we’re dealing with ,but that makes surprisingly little difference in terms of legality.

I worked for a man named Stavo. I still might, I’m not sure, he doesn’t really make contact when we don’t have a job and this one ended badly enough that I’m not sure whether or not I’m getting another call.

I hope so. I really don’t want to be a teacher.

He first contacted me three years ago after funding fell through for my second PhD, and some professional disputes meant that the chances of my career continuing were somewhere between “zero” and “no”.

He was very to the point with me, explaining right away that he organized rapid turnaround illegal digs, taking whatever high-value finds were transportable and selling them to private collectors. He had plenty of labour security and organizational support but he needed someone on staff to identify and quickly appraise artifacts or other discoveries. He had previously had a disgraced anthropology professor from Harvard, but he’d apparently been busted smuggling a few extras through customs in China and was no longer available.

Stavo said I was just the right choice to fill the position. I agreed on the spot. I never did do great with the ethical aspects of my field. I love the hunt the research and the discovery but to be honest, expanding the body of mankind’s knowledge or helping a culture connect with its roots has never been high on my priority list. Certainly not as high as money so for the next few years I traveled the globe with Stavo and his team.

There was a geologist I’ll call Grigori, Norman, who was the middleman to various antiques dealers auction houses and less respectable museums, and a pair of quiet Albanians, Barry and Paul, who acted as the muscle. Well, they did the majority of it but Stavo didn’t like it when people put their feet up on a job, so me, Gregori, and Norman spent most of the time working a spade alongside them as our expertise generally came in useful in the latter half of the dig.

I like to think I earned my keep. Certainly there were plenty of times Barry was all set to toss out some priceless treasure because he took it for dusty trash and Stavo never complained.

This last dig was high-risk. Stavo and Norman had ears in the appropriate offices of most universities and museums, so he got word that the Egyptian government had denied permission for the University of Pennsylvania to look into a possible tomb complex located between Cairo and the Red Sea.

Again, I won’t go into specifics but it was right in the middle of the Eastern desert, a good 30 or 40 miles from the closest known explored pyramid or tomb. If the university researchers were right this place could be both a significant find and, more importantly for us, completely untouched.

It was dangerous, though. When a government denied permission like this, you could never be sure that they weren’t going to send people of their own instead, and Stavo had plenty of stories of ex-colleagues that had got themselves inadvertently arrested when military abruptly turned up to secure a dig site.

Still, the opportunity was too good to pass up, and Stavo had some contacts within the Cairo police force, so was able to get us a pair of well-bribed policemen to stick around and give us at least a passing air of respectability for any civilian who might stumble across us.

So off I went to Egypt, dreaming of finding a new pyramid. I know that sounds daft, but most pyramids are not as huge obvious or intact as those at Giza. After four or five thousand years most just look like hills, or sometimes dunes, and there could be any number of them waiting undiscovered beneath the Egyptian earth.

I was surprised by how easily we found it. Stavo would gotten a location from the university’s application and Grigori quickly located a likely-looking geological formation on the satellite images. Less than 14 hours after I got the call, I was standing shovel in hand in the middle of the eastern desert breaking ground over a tomb that had been unopened for millennia.

It was exhilarating.

Grigori had done some work to make sure we were digging over what he believed to be the entrance, and it only took a day to unearth the slab of limestone that covered it. I could see hieroglyphics etched onto the surface, but they were far too worn to read. Large upon the stone carved the closed loop of a Shen ring, the symbol of infinity.

This struck me as odd, since just based on the entrance I was pretty sure this tomb was at least Fourth Dynasty and the Shen ring was usually used to designate a royal burial place, but there were no cartouches among the hieroglyphics on the entrance, which I would have expected of the tomb contained royalty.

It was a subterranean pyramid, I was now quite certain, but if it had the remains of a pharaoh, their name had not been protected upon death.

Barry and Paul wasted no time in hoisting the limestone slab off the entrance revealing a dark yawning passage. In the heat of the sun, I was acutely aware of the cold draft seeping out of the opening.

Stavo gave it a look over and asked if there was anything we could salvage from the hieroglyphics. I gave him directions to chip off the Shen ring and take photos of the rest for later study. Before you ask, I don’t have access to those photos, Stavo still has the camera.

You know, in my haste to make sure everything was going smoothly, it hadn’t really hit me what we had found until that moment, as I stood on the threshold and breathed air four thousand years old. It was dry, and smelt faintly of cedarwood. I just helped discover an untouched tomb of the Fourth Dynasty.

We collected our backs picks and torches and headed into the dark. Two things struck me as soon as we were inside.

The first was how big the place was. The passages were far wider than I would have assumed based on my research on comparable tombs. The other was that there was also significantly less ornamentation, and by less I mean none. The walls were bare, unpainted, and for a horrible moment I thought it might already have been ransacked.

Stavo had the same thought, but Grigori assured us that the condition of the entrance indicated it hadn’t been opened since it was originally sealed. The tomb hadn’t been robbed, it was just empty.

As we headed deeper, I began to notice passages branching off our paths. In each case they seemed to be heading more or less back the way we came.

I called to halt Stavo and I took a few minutes to explore one of them. At first, they seemed to be heading back towards the surface but further corridors branched off until we finally reached a dead end. Then another and another.

It took longer than I was comfortable with to find the others again.

It was a labyrinth, not entirely unlike the one found at hvar ax, but crucially it seemed to only assume its deceptive maze-like form when heading back towards the entrance. When walking deeper in it was rather straightforward.

I made these observations to Stavo and he immediately headed back out and returned carrying the end of the Jeep’s winch. It was a hundred and fifty feet in total, and he figured if the tomb ended up going deeper than that we should probably reconsider our approach entirely. I could see he was getting irritated by these delays and the lack of obviously bankable artifacts. I couldn’t blame him, I was starting to feel quite on edge myself.

As it turned out the winch finished just within sight of the central chamber, so he tied a torch to the end and headed inside.

Like the rest, this room was simple and plain, built out of rough limestone. It was completely empty save for a raised dias at the centre about three feet off the floor. Lying there were the remains of an unpainted wooden sarcophagus. It had long since rotted away, though the uncharacteristic copper bands that wrapped it still seemed in good condition.

Among the debris I could see the pale wrapping of the corpse, tight around in a way that reminded me disconcertingly of a straitjacket. It had worn away in many places, even the flesh of the mummy itself on shone dark black and almost shiny in the torchlight.

There was nothing else there at all. No treasures and no other exits.

It was at that point that Stavo lost it a bit. He’d spent a lot of money on this expedition, and to find that there was nothing there except an old corpse and some shards of wood was a significant problem for him. I mean, the architectural implications of the place in terms of mid-to-late fourth dynasty construction practices were kind of amazing, but I didn’t think that was something he wanted to hear just then.

So I kept quiet. We all did when Stavo got angry. It was best to just let it run its course rather than trying to talk him down from it and draw his anger your way. I busied myself making another loop of the room in case there were any secret entrances that I’d missed, while behind me he stood there swearing.

I did notice something in the corner though, about a half-dozen small bones with carvings on each face. Dice. I knew the dice games predated the Old Kingdom by sometime and these were excellent quality.

I decided to wait until Stavo had finished ranting before I drew his attention to them. I turned to see him leaning over the corpse, rage on his face like it was somehow this dead Egyptian’s fault that the trip had been a bust. I had to stop myself laughing until I saw that he might actually punch the thing. The mummy was the only thing in that place aside from the dice that we had any hope of selling, and I couldn’t let him damage it.

I shouted at him to stop and his eyes fixed on me with hatred burning behind them. I explained to him calmly and reasonably that the mummified body before him might be worth a lot of money.

This did seem to calm him down a bit, and he was just starting to apologize for his outburst when he went completely still. His eyes were wide and he had gone deathly pale.

I stepped a bit closer and as my torch traveled down from his face and along his arm, I saw it.

A blackened desiccated hand gripping his wrist, the thin fingers clenched tight.

It was moving.

It was alive.

It opened its eyes but beneath those brittle eyelids were empty crevices where they had long since rotted away. It opened his mouth as though to scream but no sound came out at all. I remember thinking of course it can’t scream, it doesn’t have any lungs. Lack of jars meant this would have been a cheaper mummification and they would have liquefied all the organs over the course of seventy days.

Was this thing alive when that had happened?

Was it buried in salt for seventy days, feeling the cedar oil slowly melting its insides?

These thoughts ran rapidly through my mind as I stood there frozen in terror.

The sound of Stavo’s pistol shocked me out of my stupor. He always carried a gun when he went on a dangerous job and he was emptying it into the glossy flesh of the mummy. Before him, each shot sent shards of dry skin and dusty bone flying off it, but it didn’t stop moving, not even when he shoved the gun in the corpse’s mouth and blew off the back of its skull.

It had released him now. Stavo turned to see the others had already fled back from the chamber, heading towards the surface following the cable back. The strange half-dead creature had spasmed its way off the raised platform now onto the floor, and lay between me and Stavo, and the door.

He gave me an apologetic look and then ran, leaving me alone with the thing.

The broken, shuddering mummy began to drag itself towards me. It was still partially bound in the tight burial cloth but that didn’t stop it making its painstaking way over the dusty ground. There was plenty of room to run around it, it wasn’t even that fast, but my legs just wouldn’t work.

As it got closer and closer, its mouth opened and closed stiffly, dark brown dust falling from it in a steady stream. I have no idea how it knew I was there. It had no eyes, no nose, there’s no way it should have been able to detect me, but it knew and crawled directly towards me.

I managed to reach to my hip and pull out my own weapon, a large hunting knife I’d picked up on our last trip to North America more because its weight had given me a sense of security than because I knew how to use it. I waved it at the approaching corpse, but there was no reaction.

When I felt its cold leathery, fingers grip my shin, it was like the panic pushed my mind so far that it suddenly snapped back into place. I gripped the knife in both hands, leaned forward, and plunged it into the thing’s throat.

The blade sank in with a dry creaking sound. The mummy’s arms shot up to grip it. I almost threw up from the feeling of its blackened, dead hands on mine but it was astoundingly strong.

Twitching, it pulled my hands away dragging the knife out of its throat and moving my arm down positioning the point of the blade on its chest, where the heart should be. Then it made me push the knife in.

The poor creature hung there for a second, then pulled the knife out and made me stab it again. Over and over it made me do it while its torso racked and convulsed. It almost seemed like it was crying, but without tear ducts or lungs there was no way to know.

After the fifth time it had made me stab it, it loosened its grip on my hand enough that I could release the knife. With a burst of adrenaline I took to my feet and fled.

Luckily Stavo hadn’t withdrawn the Jeep’s winch cable yet. God knows how long I’d have been trapped down there, especially since when I emerged into the intense sunlight of the desert, I found Paul and Barry arguing over the best way to replace the slab over the entrance.

It took many hours to rebury it completely, but when we were done it was like no one had ever been there. Stavo didn’t say a word as we drove away.

In ancient Egypt, dying was the most important thing a person could ever do. Your whole life was preparation for it, readying yourself and acquiring what you would need for the journey, back when the Nile was the source of all that kept you alive the land of the living. But as you got further from it, the very earth itself became hostile to you, unable to support any sort of life at all.

It was there, at the outskirts of edge of life itself, that they built their tombs and pyramids. I cannot imagine what they would have thought of a person who could not die.

I can’t imagine what they would have done to them.

ARCHIVIST
End statement.

If there’s one thing I hate more than statements that can only be followed up by making contact with uncooperative foreign agencies, it is statements where everyone involved is a criminal who either cannot be tracked down, or is unwilling to discuss their business in any way. This statement manages to neatly combine the two in such a way that any verification or follow-up has proven utterly impossible.

The only thing I have found is that Miss Gwynne is now training to become a teacher.

I can’t deny I find a certain cruel satisfaction in that fact. I feel anyone who brings me a statement about mummies deserves everything they get.

End recording.

BASIRA
You can’t just come down to the station asking

I’m sorry, I didn’t think–

BASIRA
No, you didn’t. Now I’ve got a whole bunch of questions being asked. They’re keeping tabs on me at work.

I just wanted to see

BASIRA
Your next tape. Yeah, I get it but right now I can’t do anything about that because I feel like they’re watching me all the time.

I - I mean if that’s the case, should you even have come down here?

BASIRA
It’s fine, it’s – it’s just work, but if there’s one thing I’ve learned, it’s that you and me? We suck at this whole spy thing.

ARCHIVIST
[sighs]

BASIRA
I need to wait until things calm down a bit.

ARCHIVIST
Well… keep me updated, I suppose.

BASIRA
Yeah, if I can.

[DOOR OPENS]
Stay safe.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
[whispered] Damn.

End supplement.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Are you quite all right?

TESSA
Yeah, just… your tape recorder. It’s old.

ARCHIVIST
I get that a lot.

TESSA
I just mean, I’ve been thinking about “analog” and “digital,” what we mean by them?

ARCHIVIST
In terms of information…?

TESSA
Yeah. We use the word “digital” to refer to one specific way of storing information, discrete signal values interpreted at pre-established levels. “Analog” is just a fancy way of saying “everything else.”

ARCHIVIST
I, uh -

TESSA
[speaking over him] Almost everything in the world is analog, but we’re obsessed with digital. We try to surrender everything into it, break the world down and turn it into as much binary as it takes. But it’s not the same.

I used to work on OCR programs, teaching computers to read, to take the messy physicality of the written word and convert it into something that a computer can understand in a digital format.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure what this has to do with my tape recorder

TESSA
Magnetic tape. Everyone thinks it’s analog, but it’s digital. A lower-tech version than what we use now, but people forget that it was used to store computerized data for decades. Maybe it reminds people of a film reel, or, or maybe nostalgia turns everything analog.

Although people always think of digital as not really there, but the thing is information is always physically present. It doesn’t exist as some formless nothing. Even within the tiniest, most advanced storage systems, physical memory cells change and alter themselves to render that information in a language all of their own.

I suppose it isn’t language, not really, because, because language as we use it is about as far from digital as you can get. We may call them words, but, the units of data that a computer works with are by their nature discrete and definite, while the words we use are clumsy, vague things, always at the whim of interpretation and decay.

It’s the obvious thing to say, that a computer cannot feel, but it’s true. No sequence of distinct ones and zeros can replicate the swirling cocktail of chemicals and, and, you know, nerves that is a human being. Or any other animal for that matter. Nothing about humanity is binary.

ARCHIVIST
…r-right. So, you work in computers, then.

TESSA
Sorry, I, um… it’s been a while since I talked to someone in person? Been spending a lot of time in my own head, you know. Used to just dumping information when I get the chance. I have a blog, actually, but I haven’t posted for almost a year. Almost too embarrassed to, now… Assuming I’m not losing my mind, of course!

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I hear that a lot, too.

TESSA
Well, that’s what’s terrifying, isn’t it? Your mind is all you are, there’s no backup, or you know, reset, If it goes. I’m not just talking about madness as it appears, but what it is from inside. The way people talk about it, it’s like you have to think you’re saying that our mind is everything we perceive, everything we are. That means you can never know when your grasp might be slipping. I’m not convinced that’s it, though.

Or maybe deep down somewhere inside, you understand what’s happening to you and - no. I am, I don’t know which scares me more.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, look, I don’t want to rush you -

TESSA
I’ve got a lot of friends whose retirement plans basically comes down to uploading their minds into a computer and living forever in a virtual world. They’re so sure it’s just around the corner. I’ve never had the heart to tell them it’s impossible, that the human brain is a wet mess of analog signal interpretation that is as far removed from the clean logics of digital processing as it’s possible to be.

We’ve tricked ourselves into thinking that computers and people have anything in common? But no matter how good we may program them to be at pretending to think like us, that’s all we’ll ever be. Crossing the line from meat and chemicals into pure digital systems is impossible. And everything else is just sophisticated programming and, and illusion.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, that’s fascinating, Miss Winters, but I must politely ask you to start your statement.

TESSA
What do you think I’ve been doing?

ARCHIVIST
…traditionally, our concerns are with the particulars of the supernatural incident, its origins and manifestations.

TESSA
I’m giving you context.

ARCHIVIST
Right…

In that case, I still need to make the official notations.

Statement of Tessa Winters, regarding a strange computer program she downloaded from the Deep Web three months ago.

Is that accurate?

TESSA
[heh] Well, first off, I didn’t find it on “the Deep Web” - god, it’s like talking to my grandpa! Let me explain something quickly: any time someone tries to give you a line about the “the Deep Web,” or even better, “the darknet,” chances are they wouldn’t know a VPN from their own ass. There’s not some secret, sinister underbelly of the internet where, with the right passwords and double-talk, you can hack your way into a black market of assassins, drug lords, and secret forums.

It’s just that some websites, well, we need to be a bit more security-minded, and need you to use the right, you know, software, so you’re not monitored. - I mean, yes, there’s drug stuff on there, but it’s mostly just paranoid geeks who don’t want to be caught pirating Photoshop.

ARCHIVIST
Noted.

Statement recorded direct from subject 7th January, 2017. Statement begins.

TESSA (STATEMENT)
Have you ever heard of Sergey Ushanka? I’d guess not. He’s one of the less well-known online spook stories, and you don’t look like you’re a regular presence in the chatbot or neural net communities.

The story goes back to about 1983, during the first home computer boom. There was this programmer by the name of Sergey Ushanka - I don’t know if that’s his real name, probably not… but, since a ushanka is a type of furry Russian hat, and he probably never actually existed… but, he was supposed to have been a real digital guru.

Well, according to the story, he, he got sick. In most versions it’s, uh, it’s brain cancer, but some say early-onset Alzheimer’s, or some sort of undiagnosed brain infection. Point is, it was killing him, and it affected his brain.

Now, Sergey didn’t want to die, the idea of death terrified him, and whatever was eating his mind gave him the idea to try and save his consciousness, to, um, to upload his brain.

Well, the next bit, it, um, depends on how ghoulish a version of the story you’re told.

In some, he spends a fortune and every last hour his last month’s trying desperately to code his own mind into his system, and he ends up lying dead at the keyboard, decomposing fingers still tapping away the last slivers of himself.

Other versions get a bit more grotesque. Handwritten code in his own blood feeding into the machine. I even heard one where he took the direct approach, removed the casing of his computer, carved off the top of his skull, and used the last ounces of his strength to impossibly shove his own deceased brain right into the circuitry.

Whatever version you’re told, the story goes that it actually worked, and the police found a pile of floppy disks full of impossible code next to the mutilated body of Sergey Ushanka.

I’m sure you can guess the next bit. First on floppy disks, then later on CD, and eventually downloaded directly. Sergei Ushanka has been a running prank for people who like to code text parsers and chatbots. They’re not unlike screamer videos, just a lot slower and, ideally, subtler.

You create a program which appears to be a chat window with a stranger who identifies themselves as Sergey. The responses should be as naturalistic as possible to begin with, and in the best ones it’s hard to tell if you’re talking to a bot for the first minute or two.

But then the responses start to break down, become more sinister, and keep referring to how much pain Sergey is in. Eventually, the only response the bot gives you is screaming and pleas to be released. The idea is that the chat bot is Sergey Ushanka’s mind, and he doesn’t like being in a computer nearly as much as he’d hoped. If it’s well-executed, it can be genuinely quite unsettling.

But the only two consistent details across all of them are a particular image of a heavily-pixelated screaming face, and the phrase “the angles cut me when I try to think,” which marks the start of the bot’s descent into madness. Well, as far as I know these two things have been consistent right back to the earliest versions of Sergey Ushanka.

Like I say, it’s quite a niche legend, but within certain communities, everyone’s tried their hand at making a Sergey Ushanka at least once. Well, even I looked into it once or twice, and I’m on the fringes. I’ve done a few projects with basic neural nets, but I’ve never really tried my hand at a chatbot, and gave up after a couple of hours. I used to love them. The whole thing really hit my sweet spot between creepy and nerdy, and if I found myself up at 4:00 in the morning after watching too many YouTube ghost videos, I’d often go on the hunt for a new one.

So, when I got a notification from the bot group I’m part of, and it was just a link to a file named your “Ushanka’s Despaire.exe”, I didn’t hesitate. I downloaded it almost immediately. It was a bit disappointing to see it was a tiny file, barely over a megabyte. That didn’t bode well for the experience, but I was still keen to give it a go later that night, when the ambience was better.

I looked back at the post, and saw that underneath it was comment after comment telling the OP that they’d posted a broken link. I shrugged it off at the time, but looking back I think I was probably the first person to click it, and the only one it worked for. Just unlucky, I guess.

I forgot about it for a while, but I didn’t have anything scheduled for the next day, so I spent most of the evening drinking and messing about online. It was about two in the morning when I remembered what I had waiting in my downloads. I looked out the dark, empty street below, and a pleasing shiver run up my spine. I decided I was in the perfect mood to have a chat with Sergey Ushanka.

Opening the program brought up a chat window. It wasn’t like most of the others I’d seen; it looked closer to an old-school text adventure, with just a flashing line to indicate where to type your text, white on back. Aside from that, the window was empty.

I wasn’t exactly sure what to do, as usually, the bot would make the first move, so I decided to go with a generic hello. There was no way the bots didn’t have a response programmed for that.

I waited, but there didn’t seem to be any response. That was fine. Often these things were programmed with waiting times to give the impression of thinking or composing a response. After about 15 seconds, I’m about to give it up as non-functional and close it, when the answer comes.

It’s gibberish - just a mess of symbols and letters, like it was using the wrong characters. Some of them weren’t even ASCII. I didn’t have time to really process it, though, as they were generating quickly, and soon filled the whole screen.

They weren’t static, either, but changing and scrolling, and um, and it’s gonna sound weird and it was only for a moment, but I could have sworn I saw some of the symbols twitch? Like they were in pain?

It was making my eyes hurt to watch, and I started to feel dizzy… but I couldn’t bring myself to look away.

Even then, I thought I was just looking at a very well-done horror set piece, especially when I started to notice a handful of English words popping into the wall of shifting text, for a second or two at a time. One of them read “helphelphelp”, all run together, and another, “it peels my mind like knives.”

My mouth was dry, and my hands were shaking, but even then all I could think was [laugh] how good this was. I was genuinely impressed by how unsettled it was making me.

It was the laptop’s fan that finally got me. I gradually realized that it wasn’t making its normal whirring sounds anymore. It had changed to something harsher, less healthy-sounding, like it was desperately trying to expel air? It sounded like someone breathing out diseased lungs, pushing and straining and, and never stopping to take anything back in.

It was only at that point that the possibility of malware really occurred to me. I didn’t know how it would make my laptop fans sound like that, but my computer wasn’t acting right. I tried to exit the program, and predictably enough, it wouldn’t close. So I crashed it, planning to have a look through in safe mode.

Sure enough, the lights went dark, and the groaning sounds of the fan died, but the white text on the screen wasn’t going anywhere.

Now, that, I knew was impossible. Or maybe there might have been some way to keep it frozen on the screen when the computer turned off, but to have it keep changing and morphing, when there was clearly no power running through it? Well, if it’s possible I don’t know how you do it.

More words popped in and out of existence: “you wanted to talk” and “hihihihihi” over and over again.

Then all at once, the screen was filled with an image. It was grainy, like a very early webcam, and the camera appeared to be lying on a table looking up at a balding man. He appeared to be in his late 30s, I thought, and was shirtless, with a face frozen in pain or distress. Then he moved, and I realized that I must be watching a video file.

The man was crying. There was no sound, but I could see great heaving sobs that sent his whole body shuddering. He stared into a computer monitor, the edge of which I could just about see. He seemed to be sat in the dark, and his face was solely illuminated by the screen in front of him. I watched with mounting dread as the video continued. He reached down, to what I assumed would have been the keyboard, but he didn’t seem to be typing.

Instead, there was a sudden jerking motion, and he raised his hand to reveal one of the keys, that he had apparently torn off. He brought it to his mouth, and began to eat it. I could just about make out the snap of his jaw, as the hard plastic shattered between his teeth. And as he reached for the next one, I could see a trickle of blood from his lips.

Well, that was more than enough for me. I slammed the laptop shut, and pushed it away. I decided that whatever was ha-happening could wait until daylight, I turned on all the lights in my room, and sat in an armchair drinking until I passed out, trying not to think about Sergey Ushanka.

I don’t know how long I slept for, but it can’t have been more than an hour or two, since it was still fully dark when I was woken by a snapping, crunching noise. I opened my eyes to see my TV screen on. It was showing that same video, the washed-out grainy blue making details almost impossible to distinguish, but there was noise now, coming through my speakers. I heard him crunching and eating the keys as he snapped them off, one by one.

I tried to figure out how the program could have jumped from my laptop to my TV, which wasn’t plugged in or networked to it. The only thing they had in common was the router and, and that didn’t make any sense, not unless someone was playing a really elaborate, really horrible prank on me, specifically. And I’m not the nicest person, but… I’ve never pissed anyone off that much.

All the time I was trying to figure this out, the video kept playing. The man’s breathing was labored and painful, and he was talking, muttering to himself, or maybe to me. There was no way to tell.

I couldn’t make out much through the mess he’d made of his mouth, and what I could hear, I didn’t understand. He was talking about how “it feels like thinking through cheese wire,” and “there’s no feeling, but the no feeling hurts,” and that “it’s cold without blood.”

He said that a lot. “It’s cold” and “it hurts.”

He spoke with a Russian accent. At one point, he stopped pulling at the keyboard, and reached out in front of him to where the monitor would be. There was a sound of breaking, and he pulled back a shard of glass. I don’t need to tell you what he did with it. The worst thing was, even though this meant the screen must have been shattered, somehow it was still illuminating his face.

I unplugged everything - the TV, the router, the speakers, everything. Well, that seemed to stop it, at least, at least for a while. I was in a bad way by this point, and I just left and wandered the streets until the sun came up. I didn’t take my phone, just… well, just in case.

That video was 17 hours long. I know this because it followed me until I watched all of it.

Any time I used a computer, watched TV, or looked too long at a screen, there it was. Didn’t matter if it was my own or someone else’s. After a few minutes, whatever I was looking at would melt away, and he’d be back, continuing to slowly, painfully eat his computer.

I tried to show it to a friend once, but he just looked at me like I was playing some weird joke. Only I could see it, apparently. I don’t want to be mad. I don’t think I am. But there’s no way really to know, is there?

After a month of this, I finally sat down and watched it through to the end. It was the longest day of my life, and by the end, I felt so very sick, I almost threw up when he smiled. Finally, he laid down in front of the camera and said:

“The maze is sharp on my mind.”

“The angles cut me when I try to think.”

Then he stopped moving. I could see the top of his head then, and the back of it seemed to be missing.

The picture stayed like that for about half an hour, and then the video ended. I haven’t seen it since.

I keep thinking about the idea of uploading your mind into a computer. I said it was impossible. I still think it’s impossible, in the way we want it to be. But I can’t stop wondering what it must be like to try and have thoughts, messy human thoughts, trapped in the rigid digital processes of a computer.

It must hurt. Though not a sort of pain that we can understand.

Is that enough? Do you have what you need?

ARCHIVIST
I think… uh, yes. I think we do.

TESSA
The way you’re looking at me, I’m going to assume you don’t know anything more about this than I do.

ARCHIVIST
Not really, I’m afraid. I can talk you through some other encounters we’ve recorded with supposedly haunted computers, and I think one of our post-grad students is working on something about supernatural manifestations in technology, but I don’t think we have anything else like this.

TESSA
Yeah, I figured. I just saw your post and thought, why not? And it does feel good to talk about it. You know?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I very much understand.

Oh! While I have you -

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Supplemental.

It looks like my posting on a few of the more tech-savvy boards appealing for statements has worked.

While the incident itself seems ultimately inconsequential, I was able to convince Tessa to have a look at Gertrude’s laptop, claiming to have locked myself out. I don’t know what she did - something about “command lines” and “administrative privileges” - but I now have access.

I’m almost afraid -

[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
Hey, where did you put the -

Oh, sorry didn’t mean to disturb you while you were being suspicious

ARCHIVIST
It’s fine.

TIM
No, no, I’ll catch you when you’re not scheming.

ARCHIVIST
What?

TIM
Nothing… I feel like -

ARCHIVIST
No, what did you say?

TIM
I said -

ARCHIVIST
There’s no need for the attitude, I know things have been difficult -

TIM
Oh, they have, have they? “Things have been difficult!””

You’ve spent a month staring at that footage, double-checking every moment, timing every tea break, looking at me like I somehow staged it, but no you’re right. “Things have been difficult.”

ARCHIVIST
It just seems a little too convenient.

TIM
Excuse me!?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, the CCTV is so corrupted that the police can’t just use it immediately, and then they happen to finish restoring it just when I start really digging into the murder? And if it was an option, why not clean it up when she first disappeared? And don’t get me started on the lack of cameras in the Archives.

Yes, I know, I know Elias’s whole spiel about signal degradation and installation issues, but I don’t buy it. I mean, he got the CO2 system put in easily enough -

TIM
Shut up.

ARCHIVIST
What -

TIM
Just stop talking, I’m sick of this, I’m sick of you. we didn’t kill Gertrude, and no one wants to kill you, you pompous idiot.

ARCHIVIST
Now, listen here -

TIM
No, no, you listen for once. I was fine in research. Happy. Then you asked me to be transferred here, and suddenly it’s all monsters and killers and secret passages, oh my! And the worst thing, the actual worst thing, is that no one here has my back, with any of it!

Elias doesn’t care, Martin just wants a tea party, and Sasha - and you - you’re treating me like I’m somehow to blame for it all, like I didn’t suffer the worst right alongside you.

ARCHIVIST
Well, excuse me if my experiences have made -

TIM
Your experiences? Fuck you, I got eaten by worms because of you!

ARCHIVIST
Well, what do you want, you want sympathy?

TIM
You know what, yeah! Little bit of basic sympathy would have been nice!

ARCHIVIST
Jane Prentiss was not my fault, I did not bring her to the archive -

TIM
Ohhh, but you went off the deep end afterwards, didn’t you? Everything went to hell. When you actually needed to be in charge, you just hid down here and played with your tape re -

ARCHIVIST
Well, what would you have me do?!

TIM
Anything! Anything that wasn’t turning into a paranoid lunatic would have been fine! Anything that showed you could actually do your job!

ARCHIVIST
Well, Elias -

TIM
Elias should’ve fired you weeks ago.

ARCHIVIST
What?!

TIM
After everything you’ve pulled, you should be gone. But no! Instead, we all get to talk about how you’re feeling, because we’re worried about our stalker boss. I, I can’t do this anymore!

ARCHIVIST
Then quit. If you hate it so much, leave your post in the Archives. Permanently.

TIM
You’re firing me?

ARCHIVIST
I’m offering you a chance to quit. No notice period, I’ll even make sure you get the rest of the month’s paycheck.

Just say the words.

[PAUSE]
TIM
I want to…

ARCHIVIST
So do it.

TIM
I… can’t.

ARCHIVIST
Why not?

TIM
I, I can’t! I don’t know - why can’t I quit?!

ARCHIVIST
I-I don’t know, but I don’t think I can fire you either.

TIM
What?

ARCHIVIST
It’s this place.

[PAUSE]
TIM
I don’t understand.

ARCHIVIST
Neither do I. I’m trying to figure it out, I-I’ve got the shape of it, but… I’m sorry, Tim. Truly I am. But I cannot and will not trust you. This place isn’t right, you see that now. I don’t know how or why, but there is something very wrong with the Archives. I don’t know who here is a victim of it, and who is an agent.

TIM
So, what do we do?

ARCHIVIST
For now? I suppose we just… do our jobs.

TIM
I don’t want to.

ARCHIVIST
No.

TIM
I, um, suppose I’ll see you later.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose so.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Vincent Yang regarding his claimed imprisonment by Mikaele Salesa.

Original statement given February 22nd, 2000. Recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
He drugged me. Obviously he drugged me, that’s the only explanation that makes sense. It was the only way he could get me in there, and drugs can affect how you see all sorts of things, even time.

It’s just, it felt so real. I felt every second, and I checked my watch, and - but I’ve taken all sorts of drugs in my life, I experimented plenty with psychedelics in my youth, and this didn’t feel like being drugged. It felt like being eaten. No, not eaten, entombed.

It was his own damned fault. I’ve been working customs long enough and we all know the drill, he should too. You bust the sloppy ones, you bust the ones you think might involve whatever the higher-ups are coming down on hard that month, but most smugglers are small fry. You keep your paperwork in order and we’ll keep out of your way as long as you give us the same courtesy.

I knew that Mikhail shipped through Portsmouth all the time. I never dealt with the man directly, but he should have made sure to keep his documents clean. As it was, I had to hold his shipment. Not enough grounds for an immediate full search, I made that clear to him - but if he didn’t get his papers in order quickly, we’d have no choice.

I still remember how he stared at me, stood in that shipping container surrounded by flight cases and sealed metal boxes. That level, even stare. He was appraising me like some sort of antique. Like he was curious what my value might be at auction. Then his face turned to a scowl of irritation, and he gestured widely to his cargo, offering me the chance to examine it if I thought him a criminal.

His voice was deep, calm, and measured, but his eyes had an anger in them that scared me. I looked around the container, not so much to look at the contents, but just to avoid his gaze.

Truth be told, I hated my job. It wears you down to be someone whom nobody wants to see. Smugglers and traffickers hate me because I threatened to disrupt their business, I understand that, but legitimate operators look at me in the exact same way, because they know that an error on the manifest can be far more important than whether they’ve got 2 kilos of heroin hidden in the boot of an imported car.

I began to walk around, giving a cursory examination to the assortment of mismatched boxes surrounding Salesa. I didn’t open anything, I didn’t want to. I just wanted to make a small show of the fact that I could. It was the 18th of January, about a month ago, and the container was ice-cold. Fiddling around with locks and fastenings would have needed me to take my gloves off, and that wasn’t happening.

Salesa stood there in a tank top and unbuttoned shirt, seemingly oblivious to the chill. If he was trying to make some show of toughness or bravado, then to be honest, it was working. I had no interest in crossing this man.

More important though, was the fact that smuggled antiques was so far down the list of priorities at that point that from a career point of view, bending down to stare at some flight case full of incorrectly declared pottery was a complete waste of my time.

I sighed, got my feet, and as I did so I grabbed the edge of an old wooden crate to the support. I felt the lid shift slightly under my weight. I looked at it a bit closer and couldn’t help but notice it didn’t seem to have any bolts or locks on it and the lid clearly hadn’t been nailed shut.

I reached over to try and slide it back into place, but my gloved hand slipped and as I tried to grip it I swear I barely touched the thing, but the wooden top slid further off, releasing a dusty cloud of air that sent me into a coughing fit. The air was dry and hot in a way that seemed rather alarming in the frigid shipping container. The inside was dark, the light from the entrance not reaching this far back. I shined my light in and to my surprise the crate appeared to be completely empty. I didn’t remember it listed on the manifest but if it didn’t contain anything there wasn’t necessarily a reason for it to be.

I turned back to face Salesa with a shrug. He no longer looked angry. Instead, his face now had a look of concern. I assumed he was worried I’d found something suspicious, but I shook my head and told him that if he got his documents in order by tomorrow he could be on his way no problem. Otherwise it was going to get more complicated. The look on his face didn’t change.

I began to walk out, I had to plenty more work to do that day, when he grabbed my arm. His grip was just as strong as I would have guessed and for a second I was suddenly afraid he was going to kill me. Instead, he looked me in the eyes for a long moment before he said very softly, “don’t go to sleep”.

I shook my head, assuming that was meant to be some sort of threat, and gave him a look that tried to tell him I wasn’t scared. Of course I was, but either way he didn’t seem to notice he just looked at me and repeated himself.

I was understandably nervous after that little encounter but I live in a ground-floor flat in a rather rough area, so I have several locks, a sturdy door, and bars on the window, all of which I triple-checked before turning in that night. Everything seemed to be an order so I had a few shots of vodka to calm my nerves and, well, I turned in.

Looking back on it now, the thing I find hardest to believe is how well I slept. It was a restful night’s sleep and I didn’t dream. The pain in my legs was what woke me. The dull cramp dragged me slowly from unconsciousness, and I tried to shift them into a more comfortable position under the covers.

As I tried I gradually realized that I couldn’t. They were pressed right up against a hard surface. My eyes began to flutter open and I realized that instead of my pillow, my cheek was pressed against something coarse and rigid, something that, when I tried, to move greeted me with the needling sharpness of splinters.

It was dark. Opening my eyes didn’t do much to change what I could see. My hands pressed against unvarnished wood and I felt a rising panic in the back of my mind. I think deep down I already knew exactly where I was but I still tried, steadily, one at a time, to move every limb and part of my body, hoping desperately that one of them would pass out into open air and reassure me that I wasn’t trapped within that small wooden cube. But I could barely move any of them and it soon became apparent that my prison was indeed a sturdy wooden crate.

I started to shout for help then. The sound was jarring the echo muted by the close confines of the walls, and my cries seemed incredibly loud to me. I called out again and again but nobody came. After a few minutes I suddenly had the horrid thought that maybe I had been buried alive, and I might have limited air. That shut me up very quickly, and instead I started to listen closely for any sound of movement. Nothing.

You know it’s strange, it took me a long time to make the connection with the crate I’d stopped at the cross and Salesa’s shipping container. I was so disorientated by my awakening that the idea that this was his doing took a surprisingly long time to come. Once it did, though, I began to feel rage building. I had the memory of the lid that hadn’t been secured and taking a moment to orientate myself, I began to push up on the wood directly above me.

It didn’t budge a millimeter. Either it had been nailed down or someone had placed a heavy weight on top of it, or both. I started to thrash around at that point, desperate to escape but this only earned me more splinters.

I suppose I was lucky that it was winter. The thick pajamas I slept in, that I was apparently still wearing, protected me from a lot of it. At the thought of winter I began to notice the heat. It was hot in that tiny cell, a closed humid heat that caused sweat to trickle gently down my neck and my throat to gradually turn ragged and raw.

I could do nothing but sit there, cramped and desperate, and feel that stifling oppressive heat thrum around me.

Everything about it was stifling and oppressive. I have never suffered from claustrophobia before but it didn’t take long for it to set in and for a while I gave in to blind panic, muttering to myself and hyperventilating in shallow gasping breaths of hot, sticky air.

The thing that finally brought me out of it was the realization that if I’d been breathing so hard and for so long but was still conscious, that must mean there was airflow and that I wasn’t completely buried alive. That sudden moment of relief ended abruptly though, when I swear I felt the box get smaller.

It was a slight movement, barely a centimeter, but I felt it in a jolt of pain along my leg. That the crate had decided to punish me for my moment of hope. After a while, the cramps that had been so agonizing to begin with began to fade in and out. It’s not that it stopped hurting, far from it, but it became such a constant pain that I could ignore it for long periods of time before it washed back over me in a wave of screaming muscles.

It was in such a window of normality, but I realized I was able to see my arms. There was light. It seemed to be seeping through the small gaps in the wood, barely enough to see by normally, but my eyes had grown very accustomed to the dark. It looked like sunlight. I must have been outside but I had no idea where I might be.

Near my head, a slightly larger space between the wooden slats let in a thin beam of sunlight near my head. I shifted, my neck protesting the movement, but for a single moment I felt it on my face. That sunlight, the dream of freedom. Then the box closed the gap with a shudder and squeezed me a bit tighter for daring to do so.

Still, I knew I was outside, and I knew I had air, so I tried once again to scream for help. I pleaded, I shouted, I felt my dry lips crack from the force of my screams. I kept going until my voice was nothing but a hoarse whisper and then I collapsed back into despair and terror.

At 11:56 I realized I could see my watch. I wasn’t in a habit of taking it off at bed, and the position I had been forced into left it just about visible in the dim light. It was surprisingly little comfort, as the hours that had passed by in a hazy blur of pain and fear now ticked by with an awful slowness.

Even so, it grounded me, kept me focused on something real. The minutes and hours passed same as they would have outside the box, and this more than anything convinced me that I was neither dreaming or mad.

At 9:45, the light began to disappear and I was once again in darkness. I slept then, fitfully and in great pain, and when I woke back up to find myself still trapped there, I cried. Even as I did so, in the back of my mind I hated myself for wasting what water I might have left in me.

Four days I was in there, at least if the darkness and light really was night and day. I used to be religious and I tried to pray several times, but the words felt hollow on my dry, desperate lips. I called out to God, then later to the devil, and finally to Salesa himself. None of them answered.

I knew that that was where I was going to die, trapped and alone. I wondered if they would ever find me. Was I somewhere where the stench of my rot might bring some poor soul to investigate? Probably not if my screams couldn’t be heard but maybe someone would find me. Maybe they would join me if the box was still hungry.

It was thoughts like these that played endlessly through my mind, round and round like a feverish thirsty carousel. Then all at once it was over. I awoke to hear the sounds of wood shifting above me. I barely had time to register what was happening before frigid, icy air washed over me and the torchlight was shining in my face.

I blinked hard as I started to make out two figures above me. One was Salesa, staring at me with an expression of curiosity, the other I didn’t know though I vaguely recognized him as one of the captains that made port here occasionally. Captain Larell, maybe, or Lukas? I don’t really remember.

He looked at me then over to Salesa, shrugged, and handed him a 20 pound note before turning around and walking out of the shipping container, which I saw I was once again inside.

Salesa lifted me gently out of the box being careful, I noted, not to touch the sides. Moving my legs was like walking on knives, but I managed to stumble out, overjoyed at my freedom. I felt Salesa push some papers into my hands. An updated manifest he told me, and sent me on my way.

I spent that day trying to get some life back into my tortured, atrophied muscles and slowly drinking water. I ignored my work completely and ended the day by handing in my notice.

Do you know what date was on my letter of resignation? The 19th of January, the day after I had first seen Salesa. My watch no longer matched the clock in the break room. I don’t know why the night was so much longer for me, or why it boiled me with the sun in the middle of winter.

I must have been drugged. Salesa must have drugged me. It’s the only rational explanation. But I know that he didn’t.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Another tale of the elusive Mikaele Salesa dealing in all sorts of artifacts without any decent safety measures. Unless that’s the point, of course.

And if I’m not mistaken, it would appear he’s at least acquainted with Captain Peter Lukas of the Tundra. Whatever this grand game is, Salesa is definitely involved. I just wish I knew whether he was a player, or a pawn, or something else entirely.

Surprisingly, it seems comprehensive shipping records are harder for Tim to flirt his way into than police reports, and Sasha has had her own issues with trying to access the electronic records. If there is official documentation of this particular shipment that might verify Mr. Yang’s story, we’re not able to obtain them.

Martin encountered a different problem tracking down Mr. Yang himself. Apparently, he’s retired now and living with his children, who were surprisingly cooperative in allowing Martin to see him. He’s also in the later stages of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease. He could provide no new useful information, and Martin left after Mr. Yang became acutely distressed at the mention of boxes.

All in all, a dead end. If this was the first time Mikaele Salesa turned up in our files, I would definitely agree with Mr. Yang’s own assessment, but by now there are far too many cases to chalk them all up to drugs.

Whatever Salesa deals in is, I suspect, infinitely more dangerous.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Supplemental.

Gertrude’s laptop has been rather interesting. Unfortunately, nothing along the lines of “My Murderer.avi”. She didn’t keep any sort of diary from what I can see. In fact, it doesn’t look like she kept many documents at all. A few budget spreadsheets and work forms, but I get the feeling she wasn’t much of a note-taker.

The thing that is interesting in the budget spreadsheet is the rather large amount she requested for travel. What’s even stranger is that it seems the budget was approved.

Her internet history and emails reveals some more pertinent information. It looks like she did do a lot of travel, all over the world, far further than the single basement one would expect an archivist to keep to. And in these cases, at least, she kept the receipts and the booking information. Nairobi, Wichita, Budapest, Shanghai - the list goes on. No records as far back as ‘98, of course, but given the pattern, I don’t think a trip to Alexandria is at all out of the question.

There’s also the matter of the products she was ordering. There are several online orders of petrol, lighter fluid, pesticides, and high-powered torches. They are sporadic, but notable in that she did not drive, smoke, or work in pest control. The torches would make sense if it wasn’t for the quantities in which she ordered them. She also sent orders for a staggering array of filing tabs, labels, and index markers, all different makes, formats, and systems, most of which I have encountered in various forms around the archives.

Given that the doddering old lady image is now dispelled in its entirety, I cannot help but wonder if there is a reason she was keeping the files in disarray. I’m not convinced she would approve of my efforts to organize them.

Part of me is tempted to follow her lead and suspend my explorations, but the more I find out about Gertrude, the less I am inclined to trust her, and I am not sure emulating her is the wisest course of action. Especially given the three most alarming purchases I found in her history.

Gertrude Robinson was trying to buy Leitners. Seeing the account name grbookworm1818 gave me a particularly hollow laughs. Obvious when you’re looking for it, I suppose.

It looks like she managed to get hold of three books: a special printing of The Seven Lamps of Architecture, by John Ruskin; that rather dubious copy of The Key of Solomon, and a 1910 pamphlet simply entitled A Disappearance. I am quite sure none of them are in the archives, and they weren’t in her flat, either. I rather hope she destroyed them, especially as The Key of Solomon is something of an almanac on demonology, but my luck isn’t that good.

All told, the laptop has given me much cause for concern, and little in the way of hard evidence. The more I learn about Gertrude, the more I respect her, and the more I worry about her motives.

Perhaps I’ve been focusing on the wrong question, and the most important thing isn’t who killed her, but why.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jack Barnabas, regarding a short-lived courtship with Agnes Montague in the autumn of 2006. Original statement given March 18, 2007. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I knew she wasn’t normal. I think that’s what originally drew me to her. I thought she was just like me, another weirdo cast off from the world. I mean, there was no way I could have known she wasn’t human. At least, I don’t see how she can have been human - not the way we think of it.

But she was so beautiful. She, she was tall, with long, straight, auburn hair and these eyes that, when they looked at you, it didn’t feel like she was seeing you so much as was trapping you. I never understood the phrase “like a deer in the headlights” until she looked me in the eyes for the first time. I don’t know - maybe something in my fight-or-flight reflex is screwed up, because those weren’t the instincts I felt when it happened.

I should have run, of course. I don’t know if you normally leave people alone in a room when they write their statements, but I can understand you doing so in my case. I’m getting used to people making polite excuses not to look at me.

Deliah tried to warn me off. Deliah Aconjo had worked in the Canyon Cafe ever since it opened in 1991, and as soon as I headed back into the kitchen after I saw Agnes Montague for the first time, she spotted the look in my eyes and shook her head. She told me she was trouble, that there was something not right about her. I asked for more details and Deliah just shrugged. Said that she’d been coming into the cafe ever since it opened, and that there was something off.

At the time, I assumed that she meant Agnes had been coming in ever since she was a child, as she looked about my age. But looking back, I’m not so sure.

It wasn’t as though we would have made any difference. I was drawn to her in a way I can’t even explain. I could never bring myself to say anything, or even make a sound, when her eyes fell on me.

I barely had enough wherewithal to confirm her order, even though it was always the same: a large cup of black coffee with enough room for milk. She never actually put any milk in it. She never even drank it. She’d just take it over and sit there, staring out the window into the street for an hour or so. It wasn’t like there was much of a view, just a normal street, and outside Sheffield city centre, that’s not much of a view at all.

Still, she’d sit there, staring, alone with her thoughts, for about an hour, then stand up and leave. I’d go over to clear away her coffee. It was always scalding hot.

It was such a strange little routine, and I would spend time wondering to myself what she could possibly be thinking about. What was her life, that every Tuesday at 3:00 in the afternoon, she came into the same cafe and didn’t drink a black coffee? The way she always used to order the coffee, it always sounded like she was enjoying it. The order, I mean. Like the phrase “one black coffee with room for milk” was a delightfully novel thing for her to say.

In the year and a bit leading up to my finally talking to her, I only ever saw two occasions when she wasn’t sitting alone.

The first was when another man attempted to chat her up. At least, I assume that’s what he was doing. I didn’t recognize him, but you can always tell when someone starts a conversation with a motive like that. He walked over and started saying something or other, cocky as anything. Agnes - though I didn’t know her name back then - just looked up and met his eyes. I could see him start to falter. Sweat began to roll down his forehead, but he kept talking. Then Agnes went to stand up.

It was only a very small movement, but the man started as though a gun had gone off, knocking into the table and spilling coffee all over his hand. It had been sat there almost 40 minutes, but I could see his flesh start to redden with burns where the liquid had touched it. He screamed, and suddenly all eyes were on him. His face went almost the same color as his burned hand, and he shouted something vague at us, about suing us over the temperature, and ran out the door in pain and embarrassment. Suffice it to say we did not hear from his lawyers.

That was the day I noticed the slight scorch marks on the chair Agnes had been sat on - though at the time I didn’t connect the two.

The other time was about near the end of October last year. I remember because Deliah had been ranting at me about how impossible it was to get a decent woman’s Halloween costume that didn’t, as she put it, show a mile of skin. I was making some weak joke about going as a bedsheet ghost, and telling everyone it was sexy because the ghost was technically naked, when I looked over and saw someone else sat at the table with Agnes.

She was a short Asian woman, with close-cropped hair and a thick, muscular frame. I remember being a bit surprised that she seemed to be just wearing a tank top, given how cold it was starting to get. But it did show off a rather intimidating back tattoo of what looked to be a man wreathed in the fires of hell. I still remember how disconcerting I found that screaming face, contorting in the agony of inked-on fire.

Weirder than all that, though, was the fact that Agnes appeared to be talking to her. Actually saying words that weren’t in order for coffee or a thank you. Her voice was soft, and I couldn’t make out any of the words. I mean, I know I shouldn’t have been trying to listen, I know it’s a creepy thing to do, but you don’t understand how momentous an occasion this was: to see this beautiful woman whose name I didn’t know finally talking to another human being. It was incredible.

The shorter woman’s voice was loud, though, and she made no attempt at subtlety in her conversation. She was talking about some sort of job, and whether Agnes was going to be able to do it. At first, I thought it was a job interview, and then she started talking about Agnes being “released” from something.

Agnes just said something softly, and shook her head. She looked sad, an expression I’d never seen on her face before.

The other woman sighed, clearly unhappy with the answer, and stood up to leave. Before she went, she took out a brown paper envelope and handed it over. Said that she’d give it to her now, so she didn’t forget later. She called it “a collection.” It looked like the envelope might have been full of money.

Agnes put it in her jacket and returned to staring out the window, as her intimidating companion left with a frustrated expression. That was the moment I decided to try and talk to Agnes. Seeing her interact with someone else, even in such a weird way, unblocked something in my mind.

The following Tuesday, when she came in and ordered her coffee, I asked her name. She looked at me in surprise, and for a second I felt like I’d made a terrible mistake. But then she told me, very matter-of-factly. And then I asked her out on a date. I don’t know how it happened, it just tumbled out of my mouth before I could stop it.

There was a moment of absolute silence, like everyone in the place had stopped breathing - though nobody had looked up. Then Agnes’S face twisted into something I think was a smile, and she said yes. A wave of giddy joy just washed right over me, and she took her coffee and went to her normal table.

I could feel Deliah staring at me from the kitchen, and I didn’t want to turn around, because I knew exactly the face she’d be making. I was too happy to let her ruin it with her muttered predictions of disaster. It was only after Agnes had left her undrunk coffee and headed out to wherever she went that I realized we’d never made any actual arrangements.

I spent the next day in a funk, kicking myself for having been so stupid. I have Wednesdays off work, so there was plenty of time to mope around the house feeling sorry for myself. About 3:00 in the afternoon, though, there was a knock on the door.

Standing on the other side was Agnes. She was dressed in a dark woolen coat and gray scarf, and had that same sort-of-smile on her face. She asked if I was ready to go.

I was very much not. I asked her to wait a minute, as I ran back to my room to put on some deodorant and a clean shirt. It was as I was doing this that I noticed kind of an odd smell, like when you turn on an electric heater for the first time in a while, and you get a whiff of all the burning dust. I looked up and noticed within the corner of the room, where there had been a spider’s web this morning, there was just a faint wisp of smoke. It was weird, but I had more important things on my mind. As soon as I was ready, I headed out.

I asked her what she wanted to do, and she looked at me like I was stupid. We were going to walk in the park, she said. Like it was the only possible thing to do. Of course, I agreed. She was the strangest person I had ever met, but something about it just charmed me. So we went down to Bolehill Park, the nearest one to my flat, and we walked.

I did most of the talking, as you might have expected. I don’t even remember half the things I said now, just a meaningless babble of thoughts, personal details, anecdotes. I worried I was boring her, but every time I looked over, she had that same expression on, which by then I was pretty sure was a smile. I’d catch her eye, and that feeling would flood through me. I still don’t know quite how to describe it, but whatever it was, it was powerful.

We sat on a bench as the sun went down, watching the sky redden, and Agnes asked me a question. It was the first time she’d said anything more than a few words since we left my flat. She asked me if I had a destiny.

I don’t need to tell you the question caught me off guard. I don’t know if I’ve given the impression clearly enough yet, being a single guy in my early thirties still working the till at a Sheffield cafe, but I don’t really see myself as having much of a destiny. Hell, I’m not even sure I believe in destiny. I certainly don’t believe in God, and I feel that’s kind of linked.

So I told her this. She looked at me, with the same sadness I’d seen on her face before. “That must be nice,” she said and went back to staring into the sunset.

We went out several times after that. Each time, she’d show up at my door unannounced and tell me what we were going to do. We went to the park a couple more times, had a meal in an Italian restaurant where she didn’t eat anything. We even went to see a film. I remember it was The Prestige, and when I asked her her thoughts on it, she just told me she hadn’t been watching. God, she was so bizarre. [laugh]

The last date was November the 23rd, 2006. It was a Thursday, and the chill had really hit. It was too cold to spend an evening in the park, to be honest, but Agnes had decided that’s what we had to do, so that’s what we did. She never seemed to feel the cold.

We’d walked in silence for about an hour, and it had gotten dark. I was about to suggest we leave, as they usually closed the park after nightfall. I heard Agnes gasp. I turned to see her gripping her chest, as though in sudden pain, and she told me we had to go. I followed her as she staggered out of the park and over to a phone booth, where she made a panicked call.

She said something about a tree falling, and that they had to finish something. Then she hung up. She leaned on my arm as we walked back to her flat. I’d never been there before, but it was clear she couldn’t make it unassisted.

The building was old, and the wallpaper of the corridor was a faded green lily pattern, occasionally scarred with a vivid hole burnt into it. As we approached her door, I saw a small group of people gathered around it, waiting. I recognized the woman she had been talking to several weeks before, but the others were strangers to me. They were all dressed in rough work clothes and wore severe expressions.

One of them, a big guy with a shaved head, was holding an unlit lantern, and speaking to the others in a language that I think was Spanish or Portuguese. Another held a bag that seemed to be full of candles, while a third had a clear plastic container filled with hundreds of tiny spiders. None of them paid me any attention, and I was rapidly feeling like I was falling into something that I really didn’t want to.

Agnes turned to me and apologized. Told me “goodbye,” and “thank you.” There was such a sense of finality to it that I felt like my heart stopped.

I should have left. I should have turned around and walked back the way I’d come and accepted that I’d never see her again. Instead, I did the stupidest thing I’ve ever done. There, caught up in a series of events that I didn’t understand but that terrified me, and drowning in emotions that I still can’t explain, I asked if I could kiss her.

Without warning, she put her hands either side of my head. I realized it was the first time our skin had ever touched, and I could feel the intense, hellish heat that radiated from inside her. But it was too late. She leaned in and kissed me.

There are no words to describe the pain. My face erupted in boiling agony as I felt my skin start to crack and peel, and the heat washed over me, erasing all thoughts in blistering white. I felt the fat in my cheeks liquefy and bubble as I tried to scream, but my lips wouldn’t work.

I fell to the floor. The last memory I have, before waking up in the hospital, was a single tear dropping onto my hand. A tiny, sizzling pang of torment that still somehow managed to cut through.

When I awoke three days later in the hospital, Agnes was dead. The police came and took my statement, but they had already decided it was a suicide, and when I tried to tell them what had happened, they looked at me like I was making it all up. At least, when they could stand to look at me at all.

The doctors did their best, and repeatedly told me that actually, I was very lucky, as whatever fire I had put my face in should by rights have blinded me as well. It wasn’t exactly a comfort.

I lost almost everything after that. I never had much to begin with, and after I was let go at the cafe, I couldn’t afford to keep my home. They didn’t even try to pretend it wasn’t because my burned face would scare away customers. I’ve ended up living with my father again, who has been… understanding about the situation, though even he can’t bring himself to meet my eye most days.

The worst part is, looking back, I’m still not sure what I would have done differently, or if I’d do it all again. Even after everything the police told me about her death, and the hand, I, I don’t know if I would have had it in me to resist. I just couldn’t avoid being drawn in, like a moth to the flame.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

A rather different perspective on the woman known as Agnes Montague, or Agnes Fielding, depending on who you ask. Although hardly a reliable account, steeped as it is in messy obsessions and confusion.

Still, if the bald man with the lantern is, as I suspect, Diego Malina, it would indicate a link between his notable obsession with burning, and Agnes, who apparently had not-inconsiderable abilities in that area.

I can’t help but wonder if Arthur Nolan, the Hive’s landlord, was one of the other members of that little group. I do not know if they have a name, as such, but given the evidence of organization and the indications of worship, I have started to refer to them in my notes as the Cult of the Lightless Flame. And I believe they may also be connected to the ritual circle found in Scotland by Jason North.

I’ve been, as yet, unable to find any other details on them with the information I have.

Most of the information here has already been covered, following the account of Agnes’s time in Hilltop Road, but Martin has been able to make contact with Mr. Barnabas by email. He’s apparently been doing much better in the years since his statement, having received some reasonably-successful plastic surgery. He was unable to provide much more information than the above, but upon Martin’s asking if Agnes had mentioned her childhood at all, he did recall her briefly alluding to being adopted.

Tim also got in contact with Deliah Aconjo, who confirmed what we had suspected: the woman known as Agnes Montague had visited the Canyon Cafe for a decade and a half, apparently without aging a day.

I’m now convinced this is the same Agnes who grew up in Hilltop Road, though exactly what she is, or why she seemed to retain her youth remains a mystery. Like everything else around here. Still, she is dead, as is Diego Malina. I can only hope that prevents them from causing further problems.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ELIAS
John, there’s nothing down there.

ARCHIVIST
No, that’s not true, I told you what happened.

ELIAS
You told me you wandered around in the dark for hours at a time, shortly after suffering an incredibly traumatic experience.

ARCHIVIST
So you’re saying I imagined it.

ELIAS
It’s a possibility. The other possibility is there’s something very dangerous down there. Neither makes me particularly inclined to unlock it.

ARCHIVIST
So what do you plan to do about it, send someone else?

ELIAS
We really don’t have the budget for that -

ARCHIVIST
So, nothing. You’re just going to leave it.

ELIAS
For now, I think that’s for the best.

ARCHIVIST
Please, Elias I need to know.

ELIAS
[sigh] You really think that this will help?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes, it’s getting harder and harder to work down there without being sure… what’s underneath me. So either give me the key, or find a new Archivist.

ELIAS
Oh, good lord, don’t be so dramatic, John. You know how hard it would be to replace you.

ARCHIVIST
I, I don’t actually? But… thank you, I suppose.

ELIAS
I’ll have a copy made for you on one condition: be careful. No more impetuous subterranean adventures. Understand?

ARCHIVIST
Of course, of course. Understood.

ELIAS
And for God’s sake, get some sleep.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Joseph Russo regarding a book allegedly authored by Sir Frederick Treeves. Original statement given June 3rd, 2003. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Thanks for letting me do this. I mean, I know you let anyone record a statement. That’s why you’re the Magnus Institute! So I could have just made something up, I guess. But I don’t want to waste your time or irritate you guys. I mean, I’m a big fan of your work. Never had the academic chops to get access to your library or anything, but when all those statements were leaked back in ‘99… I know all the letters pages called you crackpots, but I know. Yeah? I get it. I read them all, start to finish, and sure there’s a lot of nonsense in there, a lot of bad acid trips and liars, but in the middle, at the core of them, there was something there. There are things that go bump in the night and now I think I’ve got one to share with you.

So I’m kind of an artist. I like to use the detritus of mankind’s time on this planet to craft its own reflection back at itself, yeah? So I take what others consider garbage and use it to send a message to the puppetmasters and fat cats who hold our lives in the palm of their hand and play with our society like a chess game. A message of art. You know what I’m talking about. I bet you have a ton in your archive about the Illuminati. That’s why they smeared you so hard. I’m not asking to look at them or anything; I’m just letting you know that I get it. Yeah? I get it.

So, anyway, I spend a lot of time at the dump. Not so much those huge iron skips or the bottle bank - I mean, like I don’t have enough bottles in my studio already - but you know the bit in the middle where they sell stuff. All the stuff that really skirts the line between trash and treasure. Mirrors that are tarnished but still good. Old furniture just a bit too scuffed for the charity shop. You can get amazing things there for almost nothing if you look hard and aren’t too picky.

And when you’re making art, you don’t need to be picky. If something’s not perfect, you can make it perfect. You use the beauty inside of you to reach in and pull the beauty out of the object. Sometimes by breaking it more; sometimes by repairing it just enough. And, once, by setting it on fire. So the people at the dump around my area they know me and generally when I turn up they key me in to any of the good stuff that’s come in.

So, I was checking out the tip near Wood Green two days ago and they don’t usually have a lot of good stuff. I mean, I’ve been there sometimes when there’s literally no stuff out for sale but this time they had a few furniture pieces and a cutlery set, but nothing I could use. But one of the guys who works there, I think his name’s Gus. Or Al. He looks like a Gus or an Al.

Anyway, he pointed me to the only thing that really caught my attention. It was a wicker basket full of old books. Now this I was interested in. I’m working on a piece at the moment, it’s called ‘Pageviews’ and it’s about the death of print media at the dawn of the digital age. Point is, I’m filling a bunch of computer monitors with shredded books, so cheap books, especially a bit old and a bit yellowed, were exactly what I needed.

I discarded a few of them, as the texture or page tone wasn’t quite right, but there were plenty in there I could use. Then I spotted a book that looked a bit older than the others, right at the bottom. It was large, and the pages looked thick and loose. It was titled The Tale of a Field Hospital, by Frederick Treeves.

So clearly I’m buying it, right? I mean, obviously you know Frederick Treeves, the surgeon who was best friends with Joseph Merrick, AKA the Elephant Man, AKA my all-time favourite Victorian medical curiosity. And not just because he shares my name, though I guess that doesn’t hurt.

I mean, I knew about the book; Treeves’ account of his time working in a field hospital during the Second Boer War. I’d read it before, of course, but my copy had gone missing about the time Sandra moved out. She wasn’t exactly a fan, and I think she threw away a whole bunch of my stuff out of spite. Thing is, this one looked old. Like, 19th century old, which, since that’s when he was writing meant there was a good chance it was a first edition and that sort of thing can be very valuable. Meaning I get a good read and a payday. Win-win, right?

So I buy it, for like 50p and head off, but it’s weird. Don’t know who owned it before, might have even have been a library copy but the sticker was mostly torn off. It didn’t have a frontispiece, though, and a lot of the pages had different ink weights or layouts, and it kind of looks like they were printed at different times.

It’s only when I get home that I remember The Tale of a Field Hospital was actually based on a series of short columns he wrote for the British Medical Journal during the war itself. So I reckon what I’ve got here might just be some kind of proofing or draft copy, or maybe some custom-bound collection of those articles, and I get really excited.

As I started reading through it, though, there was something kind of weird. Bits of some of the chapters that I really don’t remember from the version I read before. The book’s old and dirty and kind of tricky to just read, so I copied down a few passages for you.

So, almost halfway through, Chapter Thirteen, he talks about “The Men with the Spades” - the soldiers who came up every day to dig the graves for those who had died in the hospital. He describes them as “unkempt and uncaring, their devil-may-care attitude hiding the deep sadness within them at their solemn duty”. Except, in the version I have, it goes like this:

Archivist’s note: attached to this statement at various points are handwritten versions of passages allegedly from the book in question.

“The graves at Frere were dug by our own men, or rather, by a small fatigue party from a regiment nearby. Nearly every morning they came, the men with the spades. There were seven of them, with a corporal, and they came up jauntily, with their spades on their shoulders and their pipes in their mouths. They were in their shirt-sleeves, and there was much display of belt and of unbuttoned neck. Their helmets were apt to be stuck on their heads in informal attitudes. They were inexpressibly untidy, and they made in their march a loose, shambling suggestion of a procession.

There was only one man who kept in his conduct a sense of decorum, yet I cannot recall it with any fondness. He wore his uniform precisely about him, and though perspiration assailed his face as he worked on his maudlin task not a drop of it ever touched his jacket. He would gaze at me levelly when I watched him work. I fancied the flies flew thicker over whatever grave he worked upon.

I asked the corporal for his name, and was told that that was Private Amherst. Fitting enough, I remarked, that he should be named for a dealer in smallpox, when he himself seemed almost taken by fever. I regretted my remark the following day, as he stood in his open grave, saluted me, and died on the spot of typhoid.”

Weird, right? That’s not in the original. Well, the first bit is, I think, but the bit about the guy dying of fever while digging a grave, definitely not. So I reckon it must be a version with all the bits they cut out for publishing in the book or the BMJ. Still, not specifically supernatural, right?

Well, later in the book there’s Chapter Nineteen, “The Story of the Restless Man”. In the version I read before, it’s a nice little story about a soldier with a wounded leg who’s given a bed, but keeps giving up his bed for other soldiers he reckons need it more. But it keeps damaging his leg more, and in the end they have to fully order him to stay in the bed. It’s meant to illustrate the unselfishness of a soldier to his comrades.

Well, in this weird edition, it goes a bit differently.

“Among the wounded who came down from Spion Kop was a private whom I recognised, though I scarce can bring myself to believe it. Private Amherst, who was two months buried in the grave he himself had dug, was carried in on a stretcher. The thigh-bone was broken, and the fracture had been much disturbed by the journey to the hospital. He did not respond to my questions about his supposed death, save a sly smile, and he was given a bedstead in one of the marquees. The limb was adjusted temporarily, and he was told to keep very quiet and not to move off his back.

Next morning, however, he was found lying upon his face, with his limb out of position and his splints, as he said, staring me again in the eye, ‘all anyhow.’ I asked him why he had moved. He told me, with flies buzzing around his fevered head, ‘You see, doctor, I am such a restless man.’

The limb was more elaborately adjusted and everything was left in excellent position. Next morning, however, the restless man was found lying upon the floor of the marquee, and in his bed was a man who had been shot through the chest. The marquee was crowded and the number of beds were few; those who could not be accommodated on beds had to lie on stretchers on the ground. The man who was shot in the chest had come in during the night, and had been placed on the only available stretcher.

Amherst proceeded to tell me that he was happy to share what little he had with those in need. I… I will grant I was uncertain of how to proceed, when the man who was shot in the chest died unexpectedly, his wound turning septic with great rapidity, and in due course the restless man was back in his own bed once more.

It was not, however, for long, for on another morning visit Amherst was found on the floor again, and again beamed forth an explanation that one of the wounded on the ground, who had come in late, seemed to be very bad and so he had changed over. The present occupant also died of an infected wound within hours of my noticing.

I was deeply shaken by this odd harbinger of sickness and fatality, but could think of no immediate redress for the matter. However, the moving of a man with a broken thigh from bed to ground and back again means not only such disordering of splints and bandages, but no little danger to the damaged limb. So I felt almost a relief when the wound turned gangrenous with such alarming speed that amputation was simply impossible. As he passed away, the second time, I implored him to stay that way. He just looked at me: ‘But you see, doctor, I am such a restless man.’”

Pretty spooky, right? You can see why I wanted to bring this to you guys. I mean, I know it’s not exactly having my own statement, my own brush with the darkness that lurks behind the shadowy veil and preys on the unwary mankind, but it’s the next best thing, right?

I’ll be honest, I didn’t really read it fully before bringing it over here, I thought you’re probably in a better position to do that, with your researchers and that, but there was one other bit I wrote out. It was in a worse state than the others, but it was the final chapter, Chapter Thirty. In the original, it recounts the rather miserable death of a soldier as contrasted with battlefield heroics, and is titled “Sic Transit Gloria Mundi”. In this version, it doesn’t have a title, and it goes like this:

“I remember at Chieveley one morning before breakfast, watching a solitary man approach the hospital lines. I knew it was him long before my vision became clear. He was now staggering towards the hospital, a ragged, broken-down, khaki-coloured spectre of a man. He dragged his rifle along with him, his belt was gone, his helmet was poised at the back of his head, his tunic was thrown over his shoulders; he was literally black with flies.

He told me he had come from the concentration camps, that there were many among the Boers that shared his state, and that he longed to touch me with all that we had visited upon them. He talked of disease, putrefaction and the writhing creatures of filth. He breathlessly talked of his revelation. Then he died, as did the man who came to bury him.”

So yeah, I reckoned it might be right up your street.

Consider the book a donation. It’s not quite as cool as having a real close encounter of my own but it’s the next best thing. Be careful carrying it, though, those old pages are kind of sharp.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Mr. Russo was found dead in his home on June 5th 2003, two days after his statement. Cause of death was found to be blood poisoning from a wound in his hand. Given that the medical records Sasha dug up seem to indicate the putrefaction was far more advanced than the timeframe would reasonably allow, I have a suspicion that Mr. Russo may have gotten a far closer encounter than he realised with a very dangerous book.

A Leitner, I would guess, though some slight charring around the edges of this statement leads me to believe that Gertrude may have made a somewhat unilateral decision about disposing of it, rather than committing it to storage.

Beyond that, all the details seem more or less accurate. Sir Frederick Treeves did indeed work in a field hospital during the Second Boer War, and did write a book about it titled The Tale of a Field Hospital, published in 1900. Tim hunted down an online version of the text, and it certainly doesn’t match up with what Mr. Russo reproduced here.

Interestingly, the official text makes no mention whatsoever of the concentration camps used to imprison Boer civilians during the conflict, where sickness and hunger killed tens of thousands and, indeed, it is perfectly possible it was not part of the war Treeves encountered or engaged with. Odd, then, that whatever thing it was that haunted him would choose that as its final message.

Amherst is rapidly becoming one of an uncomfortably long list of names that I dread seeing in a statement. Could this be an ancestor of John Amherst? Or, given the many apparent deaths of the soldier in the book, might it be the same being, well over a hundred years old? If so, I wonder how many times it has died of sickness and disease.

Another point is a link that Treeves brings up which I had not considered, that of Jeffrey Amherst, an 18th century baronet who is most remembered for deliberately providing blankets infected with smallpox to Native American tribes during the so-called French and Indian Wars, leading to a devastating epidemic. A connection to a very different sort of monster, but still one that has the trappings of disease.

I had assumed that Amherst was something similar to Prentiss in his connection to insects, but that may not be all. Insects and disease. No clear connection, other than the fact that they somehow feel similar. They both make one feel distinctly unclean.

End recording.

[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I’m in the tunnels. I was exploring and I got lost. I haven’t gone down any of the stairs and I - I think I’m still under the Institute. There were a couple of spiders, so I changed routes and found, I think it’s a gas main. Must be for the whole building. But there’s someone coming and I - I don’t know who else would be down here, except… I mean, whatever’s down here. It was… it was just checking on the upper levels, I didn’t prepare for -

NOT!SASHA
Jon?

[ARCHIVIST CRIES OUT, STARTLED]
Jon is that you?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, Sasha, thank god. I thought you - I thought you were a… I don’t know. What are you doing down here?

NOT!SASHA
Forgot my coat. I noticed the trap door was open and wanted to make sure you were ok. Did Elias give you the key?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, he… he thought it might help put a stop to some of my “wilder imaginings”. Are you okay?

NOT!SASHA
Yes, I’m okay… I don’t really like it down here. Hard to focus.

[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Sasha managed to successfully navigate us out of the tunnels. Might defer future exploration for a while, at least until my heart rate settles down sometime in about a year. The place plays odd tricks with your mind. When I saw Sasha down there, for a moment it was like I didn’t recognise her. She seemed… far too tall somehow. I’ve locked it back up for now. I think I need some fresh air.

End supplemental.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
MARTIN
Here you go. Sasha in today?

ARCHIVIST
Oh… she’s got the day off. Said she was spending the day with this Tom of hers.

MARTIN
Anything nice?

ARCHIVIST
Didn’t say.

MARTIN
Have you ever actually met him?

ARCHIVIST
Why would I have? We’re don’t exactly hold socials. He sounds nice enough, I suppose. In a Kensington sort of way. You ever met him?

MARTIN
No but she’s pretty private with that stuff. Not like Tim.

ARCHIVIST
Hm.

MARTIN
Just talk to him, please.

ARCHIVIST
I think we’ve said more than enough. I doubt there’s much more words can do for us.

MARTIN
You can’t work together like this.

ARCHIVIST
Ironically, I think working is all Tim and I can do together.

MARTIN
Look. Jon… when was the last time we all just talked? Just talked, without all of this -

ARCHIVIST
Thank you for the tea, Martin.

MARTIN
Ok. Fine.

[DOOR OPENS]
He’s not wrong, you know.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
I know.

Statement of Darren Harlow… [SIGH]

Statement of Darren Harlow regarding a failed psychology experiment at the University of Surrey. Original statement given 18th November, 2010. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Things always seem so obvious in retrospect. That experiment was always a terrible idea. Even at the time, I remember thinking it sounded like something out of a horror movie. I mean, every time I heard a new detail about it I’d go home and tell my wife and we’d speculate over dinner about how it was going to go wrong in some grotesque and horrific way. We’d laugh and suggest the ways it could turn those poor grad students into crazed killers or mutated monsters.

And when I started to see more and more spiders around the lab, I turned the very real sense of unease into the… the fun sort of fear, like I was just playing at being scared. It’s so strange, even when you’re really looking for horror, it’s impossible to actually believe it. It always feels like something you made up. Just having a bit of fun scaring yourself. Because those things don’t happen. Not in the real world.

But you think sometimes about what the real world is. Just what your brain mixes together from what your senses tell you. We create the world in a lot of ways. I suppose it shouldn’t be surprising that, when we’re not being careful, we can change it.

Before you ask any in-depth questions about the methodologies or structure of the experiment, I should make it clear - I’m just one of the cleaners. I have no idea how or why they started it or, god knows, where the funding came from. I find it hard to believe the Psych Department okayed it, but I’m not an academic, and those decisions are way over my head.

I mainly take care of the science labs. Most of the cleaning crews at the university get shifted around a lot, working in different buildings or departments one month to the next, but there’s a lot of stuff in the labs that requires additional training to clean safely, so we’re a bit more specialised than the rest. I mean, they still didn’t let us within spitting distance of the really expensive equipment; that was all taken care of by the lab techs, but the point is, I’m a much more familiar face around the science departments than a cleaner would otherwise be.

There’s also the fact that the science lot actually talked to me on occasion. I don’t want to say it’s ‘cause I’m white and the rest of the cleaning crew isn’t, but they always talked to me in a way they didn’t talk to the others, so I became the de facto point of contact between the cleaners and the rest of the staff. Long story short, I generally knew roughly what the deal was with most of the experiments being run at any point.

So when Dr. Elizabeth Bates told me about the latest study by her psychology postgrads, I thought she was pulling my leg. The Psych Department is generally one of the least demanding from my perspective as it’s almost entirely people sitting at computers or in interview rooms. Once or twice I think they were given use of an MRI machine at some hospital or other, but that’s more a neuroscience thing and, more importantly, didn’t happen in the buildings I cleaned.

Since I’ve been there, which is a good seven years now, they’ve never crossed over into parapsychology, nothing even remotely less than respectable research, so when Liz explained the experiment, and I realised they were basically doing ESP research, I got a bit excited. I mean, she dressed it up with all sorts of science jargon and sent my head spinning plenty, but it still basically boiled down to seeing if the thoughts and feelings of a group of people in one room had any effect on the experience of a subject in a separate, sealed room. I mean she could talk about “group dynamics” and call it “proximity intuition” or whatever it was she said, but I know ESP research when I’m mopping its floors.

Not that I minded, of course; I love that crap. I’m a horror nut but I generally tend toward the more sci-fi end. Demons and ghosts have never really got me but give me aliens or the sinister powers of the human mind and I am there.

I didn’t tell any of this to Liz, of course, I got the impression that it was a bit of a sore spot, and I’ve no reason to piss off the people I work with. But you can be damn sure I was keeping a much closer eye on this experiment than I was the others. Especially when she told me a bit more about how they were doing it.

The basic premise was pretty similar to most of these studies. There was a room with a one-way mirror where the subject would sit, and they’d be strapped up to measure physical responses. The other side of the glass was anywhere between one and twenty participants, who would be receiving stimulus for a certain response or feeling. Those feelings would be incited while their attention was on the subject through the mirror.

Then they simply measured what, if any, response the subject had to something they couldn’t see, hear or otherwise be aware of. Sometimes the subject was told there were people on the other side of the glass when there weren’t, in order to get a control group and weed out any placebo responses. The subject’s name was Annabelle Cane.

What really got me, though, was what Liz told me about the specific nature of the feelings they were trying to project. They were planning to work with fear. Specifically, they had selected as projectors a group of people who self-identified as arachnophobes, and at certain points of their watching Annabelle, videos of spiders crawling, eating and spawning would be randomly projected over the glass, inciting an acute fear response.

The reasoning was that fear was both an extremely powerful emotion and one that would be quite easy to distinguish in Annabelle’s responses. They wanted to see if they could use ESP to scare her.

I told you it sounded like a set-up to a horror movie, right? I don’t know how they didn’t see that. I mean, maybe they did. Maybe they went ahead with it for the same reason I joked with Laura about it instead of requesting a transfer. You come to relish the ghoulishness of it, because deep down you know it’s safe. The worst that might happen would a few upset students. It should have just been an idle flight of fancy.

Now, I can’t really speak to what happened for the majority of the study. For obvious reasons, I wasn’t cleaning the rooms in question while they were doing the tests, but heard a few bits and pieces about it from Liz and some of the other researchers. It seemed to be going well to begin with. Annabelle was displaying some subtle but statistically significant signs of distress and unease while the spiders were being shown. Signs that were noticeably absent during the control periods.

I know that the fear reactions were certainly serious enough for the poor souls that had unwittingly signed up as projectors: I had to clean up when one of them was sick during the first round of testing. He had to leave the experiment, if I remember. Lucky sod.

I’m sure you can guess what I ended up cleaning more and more of over the course of the study. Cobwebs. I mean, you can’t avoid them in buildings with high ceilings and inviting corners, but even so, there were more and more of them each day. I’d brush or hoover them away in an evening only to find them returned the next morning, thicker than ever.

I never got a good look at the spiders behind them. Unlike most of the ones I’ve seen, sitting fat and proud in the centre of their web, the most I ever saw of these ones would be a quick scuttle of dark legs disappearing into a hole in the plaster or behind a wall installation.

It creeped me out plenty, but in a good way, I thought. I knew that, logically, they were just escaping the winter. I mean, you know how cold it’s been these last few weeks. I’d try to spook Liz, telling her how her dark experiments were summoning up an army of spiders. I had no idea.

The tests were progressing, and they had started introducing multiple projectors at once to see how it affected the intensity of the feelings Annabelle was receiving. Liz was very excited by the results. I can still remember her face as she told me that Annabelle had apparently reported having several unsettling dreams about spiders.

Notably, at no point in the experiment had she been informed that it was spiders being used. Liz was excited, telling me how the dreams seemed to map very well to the physiological responses they had been recording; how Annabelle had dreamed of “tiny legs running along her veins like a web”.

It was then they started to have problems, though. While adding additional projectors had at first increased the severity of the responses, it seemed this had very quickly tapered off, and soon the measurements had changed significantly. They were still getting noticeable responses, but they weren’t like the ones they had gotten before. They didn’t appear to be fear.

Liz was irritated by this as. Even though the results still looked good for a general ESP study, the variation in response tone would apparently muddy the research in ways she wasn’t keen on.

I only saw Annabelle Cane once during this period. She wasn’t hard to pick out. She dressed like a vintage clothing store exploded on her, and her short bleach-blonde hair stood out sharply against dark skin. The first time I saw her I’d liked her. She looked like the kind of student who occasionally talked to cleaners like we were people. Not that we ever actually spoke, but she had that air about her.

This time, though, it was just as she was leaving the mirror room. She was walking strangely, like her trousers didn’t fit her right. She kept bending her knees at kind of odd angles, holding herself with this stiffness. Her arm was extended, and she ran her hand along the wall as she went, moving her fingers rapidly so it scuttled like… well, like a spider with its legs missing.

Even then I didn’t really start to consider what might be happening. No, I didn’t take it seriously until what happened last Thursday. I’d pulled a late shift and had just finished my first sweep of the labs. I’d made a start on mopping the corridors leading up to the rooms Liz had been using, when I noticed the lights were still on. Now, she’d mentioned that that afternoon they were trying the first sessions with all nineteen of the remaining projectors - they’d had a predictably high dropout rate.

Now, I know that the more people you have involved in a test, the longer it tends to take and the more potential there is for delays, so it might well have overrun, but it was half nine in the evening by that point, so it seemed very unlikely it would have gone on that long. I thought maybe they’d just left the lights on by accident. These things happen. I did my best to forget that the lights in those rooms were normally motion activated.

I hope someday I’ll forget what I saw when I opened that door, but I won’t. All the arachnophobes, Liz’s “projectors”, were stood in two circles, the one inside of the other. Their hands and arms were locked together in a complex, interlocking pattern and they walked around, rotating the whole thing slowly but surely.

Liz wasn’t there, but in the corner I could see one of her postgrad students, I think his was Mark, standing there, staring like he was in some sort of trance. I mean, they all looked like they were in a trance.

The other side of the glass, I could see Annabelle Cane stood there, staring at them. Her body was hunched over and contorted in a way that was definitely not natural, and I really want it to have been a trick of the light, but for a second it looked like she had more than two eyes.

Almost as soon as I opened the room, the movement of the circle stopped abruptly and their heads snapped to face me all at once. I froze in panic. They dropped their arms to the side, and for a moment I was sure they were going to attack me, but instead they turned back towards the window, towards Annabelle, and walked up to it, lining close in front of the glass.

With a sudden, jerky motion, they drew their heads back, then slammed them into the mirrored window, shattering it all at once. I wanted to run, but I couldn’t will my body to move. I just stood there, watching the blood run down from the cuts in their foreheads, as Annabelle began to climb through the broken window, her limbs moving and reaching, slowly and deliberately. The others didn’t move a muscle as she crawled over them, then over the floor towards me.

When she was about a foot away from me, she drew herself up to her full height. I don’t know exactly how tall she had been before, but now she loomed over me by almost a full foot. Her eyes locked on mine, and I began to feel something. It was like a hundred tiny, scurrying legs inside my skull, moving and scampering through my mind.

I felt my hands, which had dropped to the side of my body, begin to raise. They gripped my legs and then, apparently of their own accord, they began to crawl up me, climbing slowly over my stomach, my chest, my shoulders, until, finally, they came to rest upon my throat. I’ve never been a strong man but that didn’t seem to matter as my own fingers began to close around my neck like a vice.

Panic was making me breathe fast and shallow, but within seconds I couldn’t even do that. I don’t know if you’ve ever been strangled, but it takes a lot longer than you think it does. I’ve no idea exactly how long it was before the edges of my vision began to go dark, but it felt like forever.

Then, out of the corner of my eye I saw Mark, the researcher, move. I don’t know how he’d broken whatever spell Annabelle had put him under but he’d apparently managed to. With a sudden, unexpected motion, he charged at her and slammed his full weight into her side.

The attack took her completely off guard and she fell hard against the edge of the broken window, the side of her head making a god awful crunching sound as it hit. All at once the others collapsed onto the floor, like their strings had been cut. My hands dropped as well, and I took a long, painful gasp of air.

I collapsed, taking a few moments to try and regain myself. Mark already had his phone out and was trying to call the police. I was groggy and my brain felt like someone had taken a belt-sander to it, but I managed to struggle to my feet. I looked at the crumpled form of Annabelle Cane just as it started to get back up. I could see the side of her skull had been caved in, and beneath the wet mess of blood and bone, I saw a mass of dull white cobweb.

I ran. I’m not proud of it. I ran out of that building, back to my car and I just drove away. I drove for almost an hour before I finally pulled into a side road and started crying. I never saw any of them again.

The University administration contacted me before the police did. They told me in no uncertain terms that if I valued my job, I had officially not been in the building that night. I didn’t really know what I’d have told tell the cops anyway, and I needed that job, so when I was questioned I told them I’d been home sick with a stomach bug. I think the fact that I looked like death helped convince them, and I wore a high-necked shirt to the interview.

Official line was that Annabelle had suffered a psychotic break and broken the window, injuring a lot of people with broken glass before beating Mark half to death and fleeing the building. The others in that room don’t seem to remember anything, and I don’t know if Mark ever mentioned me in his testimony. He and Liz still haven’t returned to the University, and I’ve not made any efforts to contact them.

As far as I know, Annabelle Cane is still out there. I’m keeping my distance from anything even remotely spider-related, though. I somehow managed to live through one horror movie. I have no intention of going looking for another.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

More spiders. Mr. Harlow’s testimony does at least have the decency to be widely corroborated. The story of the psychology student who went mad during an ESP study is still widely discussed in certain quarters of Surrey University, and there are multiple newspaper articles covering the events in depth, though none of them mention the, uh, arachnid angle, or indeed Mr. Harlow’s involvement.

Both Mark Voight and Dr. Elizabeth Bates left the University almost immediately following the incident under something of a cloud. Dr. Bates has refused our request for an interview point-blank, while Martin informs me that Mr. Voight’s testimony was disjointed and borderline incomprehensible. Apparently, biologically, his account of the spiders doesn’t make any sense according to Martin. Also, apparently, he cried a lot. He did, however, at least confirm the presence of Mr. Harlow at the event, and the rest of the conversation was a mess of rambling about legs and scuttling.

Despite his recent issues, Tim came through on this one. Police reports do support the official story of a student who suffered a violent episode and attacked other people involved in a research study. It was ascribed to a psychotic attack, though Annabelle Cane’s parents have repeatedly stated she had no history of mental illness or violence. Indeed, I’ve rarely seen so blatant a use of the image of a frothing lunatic outside the pages of lurid fiction. I do not think she went mad.

Annabelle Cane has never been apprehended and appears to all intents and purposes to have disappeared. What is equally, if not more concerning, is that in the years since that statement, every one of the other participants in that study, Dr. Bates’ so-called “projectors”, have also disappeared. I cannot help but wonder how many cobwebs might be found in their old homes.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I, uh, I’ve not been back in the tunnels. I find myself… let’s call it what it is - I’m scared. Especially after last week’s abortive exploration.

And yet, every other lead seems to have dried up or given more questions without resolving anything, and short of confronting Elias with what I’ve found, or waiting in the unlikely hope of more tapes from Basira, I am struggling to settle on any plan that doesn’t take me down into those tunnels. Down to find something that has made very clear that it does not want to be found.

I should ask the others for help but I… I can’t. At best, they’d just try to talk me out of it. At worst… No, I… if I’m going down there, I go alone.

I should just leave it. They’re right. But I can’t not know.

End supplemental.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Masato Murray, regarding an unusual inheritance and the causes thereof. Original Statement given 9th December, 2003. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I did wonder why he left me anything in the first place. Philip Doah and I always kind of hated each other. You know those friends you have who aren’t really your friends, but you go to the same parties and it’s not enough of a thing that you’d actually avoid each other, so everyone just assumes you’re friends, and you kind of absorb that and even start picturing them there when you think about “your friends” as a group, but deep down you both know you don’t actually like each other, it’s just that it’s actually more effort to not be friends? Well, Phil was one of those.

He was fine if you were discussing a movie and he was picking apart the dialogue or the casting choices, but whenever he started drinking, he got political, and let’s just say he was the sort of guy who thought that minimum wage was a bad idea. I don’t have particularly strong opinions myself, but it really wasn’t a rant you want to hear when you’re four beers in. Especially when you’ve heard it plenty already. It was like, yeah Phil, we know you got where you are through sheer hard work and determination, and the fact your parents gave you their second house as a 21st birthday present didn’t help at all. Asshole. Not that I want to speak ill of the dead.

Anyway, as far as I knew, my distaste for him was always mutual, so it came as a real surprise to learn he’d left me something in his will. I’d love to make some flippant remark and say the only gift I needed was him falling under that train, but truth be told his death actually hit me pretty hard. All of us felt it. I mean, 37 years old. It’s an odd time to go. It’s not really in the realms of “tragic loss of a young life so full of potential”, but it’s still a long way from “I guess it was his time”.

I guess it just hit all of us that we were entering the period of our lives where sometimes people die. Life was no longer a given, and it wouldn’t actually be as long as all that before funerals were starting to outnumber the weddings. This was back in February, and I’d just turned 34, but it played on my mind. Mortality.

I just kept thinking to myself: the moment I die will feel just the same as this one. It’s not a thing forever in the future; I will be in that present just as surely as I am in this one. And I will end. I’ve never been a religious man, and I always say I take comfort in the idea of a peaceful oblivion but that’s a lie. I’m terrified.

The inheritance I received from Phil didn’t exactly do anything to calm my mind. It was listed in the inventory as his journal, but looking at it that didn’t seem right at all. It was clearly older than 37 years, with the black bookcloth faded and worn away at the corners. For a second I wondered if maybe it was some sort of family journal, passed down between generations, but then leaving it to me made even less sense.

I still took it. I mean, what else are you going to do in a situation like that? It was larger than it had looked lying on the table, and heavier, like one of those old family bibles you sometimes see in museums. I did have the decency to wait until the end of proceedings before I carried it home and started to look on the Internet to try and see how much it might be worth.

This was actually the first time I took a proper look at it. I don’t know, really, the whole thing felt so surreal that actually examining the thing hadn’t quite felt right when they first gave it to me. There wasn’t any obvious name on the cover, and I wondered if it might have had a dust wrapper that had been lost, but it seemed far too large for anything like that to fit. Opening it up at the beginning, it seemed to lack a proper title page as well, or any other form of identification. Instead, printed there was a quote, though there wasn’t any attribution for it. It read:

“Life is a current which cannot be fought. It is a march with one destination. You cannot cease your step, nor move your course, to one that skirts the journey’s termination.”

And below it, in a faded blue ink was a handwritten message:

“YOU HAVE ALREADY READ TOO MUCH”

I laughed at this. I was starting to think that maybe Phil was finding one final way to be an asshole from beyond the grave. I’d never thought he’d actually had much imagination, but a gruesome practical joke did seem the most likely explanation at that point. So I turned the page to see what was next.

The next page was in Latin, but not printed Latin. It looked handmade, like those old medieval books that monks used to write out. The ornate Gothic script cascaded down the page, rigid and sharp. Obviously I couldn’t read it. Even if I had the first clue about Latin, which I do not, I could barely make out which letter was which. The next page was similar, and the one after that. It was almost twenty pages before the writing became something close to what I recognised.

It was English, but not like modern English. I’m not sure if it was Old- or Middle- or whatever, but they tried to make me study The Canterbury Tales once for English class, and it looked kind of like that. Close enough to real words that you knew it was the same language, but it was spelt all wrong and didn’t actually make much sense when you tried to read it.

There were a couple of words that stuck out, though. It seemed to be about someone called Julian, and “Deeth” cropped up a few times, which I assumed was “Death” and even one instance of the word “Homycide”, which I didn’t even know was a word back then.

The next pages were more of the same, though I did gradually get more and more so I could understand it, each was in a very different hand, until it reached the entry on Christopher. This was one of the first with printed type, and like the others, had no real heading or formatting, just a solid block of text that covered the page. It was an account of the death of somebody named Christopher, which apparently took place in the Year of our Lord Fifteen Ninety-Two. He was dragged through the streets of Norwich by a horse, scraping off a good deal of skin on the jagged, frozen ground. After about ten minutes of leaving this bloody trail, the horse proceeds to stop, turn around and slam its hooves into his head until it caves in. Christopher does not lose consciousness until the third impact. This whole scenario was described in vivid, graphic detail. I felt a bit unwell, reading the account of how it felt for him to hear his own skull breaking.

It soon became clear that all the accounts were similar. Each detailed a death, often violent, always unpleasant. They were in chronological order, with what looked like five to ten years between each one, though sometimes they came much quicker, one after the other. I also started to notice, on some of the pages, a faint scorching around the edges, though it would be some time before my own attempts to burn it proved how resilient it really was.

As it went through the ages, the style and the manners of death updated with it, though no-one found in those pages seemed to die naturally. I wasn’t reading them very closely at that point, one gruesome death being very much like another, when I reached the last two pages before the book’s contents became blank. The penultimate was for Philip Doah, and the last one, as I’m sure you might have guessed, was for me.

It was hard, reading the book’s description of Phil’s death. It lingered on his terror as he felt himself falling off the platform, the screech of the train’s wheels as they rumbled unstoppably towards him. It said that though his legs were severed and his body crushed, it had taken him almost two minutes to die as he watched his blood flowing out along the rails.

I couldn’t believe what I was reading. It was sick. Could someone have put this in the book after his death? Why would they do something like that? Or could it be that Phil’s accident had been more deliberate than everyone thought? Maybe it was suicide? But even then, I mean, I respect anyone’s right to end their own life, but even if that was the case, writing gory fiction about it beforehand is well beyond anything that Phil was capable of.

I didn’t know what to do. Should I tell someone? And tell them what? The book was old, and these pages look newer than the old handwritten bits, sure, but they still did look like part of the book. If this was some elaborate hoax or morbid joke, whoever did it had a whole book deliberately written, printed and very convincingly aged, just to play it on me, whose only significance was that I kind of didn’t like a man who died. None of it made any sense.

Finally, I turned to the last page before they turned blank. It was my death. It was to occur, so it said, in 2014. Eleven years in the future. I was apparently to be walking along an isolated country road in Lancashire, of all places, when a passing car would lose control and run me down. The impact would drive me into the wooded barrier, impaling me on fallen tree branch. The driver was killed in the crash, and no-one else would pass by as I lay there, alone and screaming for help, until my body finally gave up. It was quite particular about how the jagged wood was going to feel as it passed through my torso.

I closed the book and tried to understand what I had just read. It was a joke. It had to be. A sick prank by someone who had clearly hated me far more than I had expected. Phil had decided to kill himself, and had this made to harass me afterwards. It was the only explanation that made any sense. Besides, even if it was somehow true and this thing could genuinely tell the future, my end was still well over a decade away. Too far to be of any immediate worry. I simply wouldn’t go to Lancashire. Maybe ever. Certainly not in 2014. I had no idea what would even cause me to go there in the first place. So I did my best to ignore it. For a while.

It played on my mind, though. I mean, how could it not? So I started to look into some of the other deaths it detailed. Not obsessively, at least not at that point, but I took the time to search online for a few of the names and how they died. It wasn’t easy, as the book only ever gave first names, and most of them pre-dated online records by a long time. Eventually, though, I found one. Alexander, so the book claimed, had died in 1983, after his home was broken into. He was stabbed seven times in his bed before his throat was sliced open. The entry went so far as to assure me that the murderer was never identified or caught.

Well, after a little bit of digging, I found him. Alexander Willard. It was an article on the history of the small town of Alcester, near Stratford-upon-Avon. It was focused on the darker aspects of the area’s history, and detailed the few ghosts that supposedly haunted the area. Tucked at the end of the piece was the mention of a strange unsolved murder that had taken place in 1983, where a local mechanic named Alexander Willard had been killed in his bed. No culprit was ever found, and no motive for the crime was ever determined.

Of course, that didn’t prove anything. Not really. Only that whoever had written the book had really done their research. There was nothing to it but a lot of time and energy that had, for some reason, gone towards the sole purpose of scaring me. If it was true, if it was real, and Phil had it in his possession, surely he could have read of his own demise and taken steps to avoid it. I turned back to the page for my own death, the sickening desire to re-read the details gnawing at me. And that was when everything I thought I knew crumbled. Because the page had changed.

The words were as solid and unmoving as they always had been, but now it told me that I died in London. In 2012. I was apparently renting a flat in Bethnal Green with a faulty gas main. The gas had built up undetected, and when I tried to light to oven to cook a piece of salmon, it exploded and set the whole place alight. I was to be admitted to the Royal London Hospital Emergency Department with third degree burns over seventy percent of my body, where I died nineteen hours later.

My whole body was shaking at this point. I threw the book across the room and left. I walked for hours, no idea in which direction. It wasn’t possible. I was losing it. It was the only explanation. But I knew that I was as sane as I ever had been. When did it change? Was it when I turned back to read it again? Or perhaps when I had made the decision to never visit Lancashire? If the book knew the future, then how much did it know me? My decisions and choices were my own, so was it responding to them or simply to the fact that I opened the book again? Perhaps it changed every time I opened it, even if I didn’t read the page, every interaction changing my fate, though none, it seemed, made it less horrible.

I went to stay with a friend of mine, John Kendrick, for a few days. He could see something was wrong, and thankfully didn’t ask me about it, instead just trying to cheer me up. I tried to forget it, to ignore what I had read but it’s not the sort of thing that ever truly leaves your mind, and eventually I found myself back in that lonely house, staring at that damned book. Had it changed? Were the words now within that raggedy black covering already describing a new, more painful end for me? Or had it shown mercy, and granted me a quicker death?

I tried to destroy it, of course. It wouldn’t burn, and water didn’t seem to damage the pages. Spilled ink didn’t mark them, and though I considered burying it, I couldn’t shake the feeling that those who came before me must have tried all the same things. I read my death again, as it told me how I was to be partially decapitated by a falling piece of masonry on New Years Eve, 2011.

I try not to read it, of course. But sometimes it just gets too much. Every time the date gets closer, and the manner of my death stays just as awful. When I close the book I wonder, are those same words still there, squatting and biding their time, or have they already changed into some new unknown terror that I can neither know nor avoid, waiting to spring on me.

I haven’t brought the book with me to show you, and I am not planning to write up a will. I don’t know whether it’s ownership of the thing that makes it write your fate or just reading it. Either way, I will keep it as long as it will let me. Until I reach an end that may be more gruesome, but is fundamentally no different than that which awaits us all.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Mr. Murray disappeared shortly after making this statement. As far as we can determine, it was a voluntary disappearance, as the lease on his flat was cancelled shortly beforehand, and he resigned from his post as an administrator with Birmingham City Council. Since then, he has apparently been successful in changing or hiding his identity, and neither Sasha nor Tim have had any luck locating him, though Tim was able to confirm that one Philip Doah passed away after falling under a train at Birmingham New Street Station on the 1st of August, 2003. There are also no accident reports we were able to find that matched any of his supposed predicted deaths.

I’ve discouraged further attempts to locate Mr. Murray, as even the latest of his possible ends was some years ago now, and if he was in any way correct about the book, he is most likely long dead.

Notable in his account, however, is the absence of any indication that this book was ever possessed by Jurgen Leitner. It seems to support the theory that, whatever these books are, Leitner is not entirely responsible for them.

One other slightly encouraging piece of news is apparently IT have finally figured out what’s wrong with Sasha’s computer - it’s been getting authentication errors when attempting to connect with external devices or networks. I can’t say I’m fully familiar with exactly what that means, but hopefully now the problem has been isolated, they can come up with some sort of workaround, and future investigations will be able to once again fully utilise her technical skills.

End recording.

Supplemental.

Books. Again and again it always seems to come back to those books. There are other artifacts that hold sinister power, certainly, but none of them seem to be quite so prevalent or insidious as those damn books. But why? I had always assumed that Leitner had created them somehow, leasing parts of his own damned soul give them power, or some similar nonsense. But no. I’ve heard enough now to be sure that these books existed long before he managed to hunt them down. Not all of them, though, it would seem.

I found something in the tunnels. I have now thoroughly explored the upper level, at least as far as I’m able. Further in, some of the passageways are blocked off or ruined by infrastructure works. Pipes and drainage, that sort of thing. It may be that the lower levels would have a route underneath and back up the other side, though I’ve yet to make much headway down there.

But, shortly after I started exploring the second level, I found something. It was a room, empty except for three wooden chairs. It looked like there had previously been more, but they had been smashed. Based on the scorch marks in the corner, I think I know what they were used for. The ashes were old, impossible to tell what they might have been before they were burned, except for the small scraps of old paper dotted around the floor. I think someone tore up a book and then burned it.

There was only one scrap large enough to decipher anything legible: “They have for adversaries the Satariel, or concealers, the Demons of absurdity, of intellectual inertia, and of Mystery.”

That answers the question of what happened to the copy of The Key of Solomon that Gertrude bought. But if she only bought it to destroy it, why down there? There seemed no especial significance to the room, except that it contained some old wooden furniture. No sign of the other Leitners, though. I’ll need to keep looking.

End supplemental.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
KAROLINA
Okay?

ARCHIVIST
One second. Statement of Karolina Górka, regarding a brief period trapped on the London Underground. Statement taken direct from subject 25th January, 2017.

KAROLINA
Thank you. On the night of the 6th of January, 2017, I left the Star of Kings and walked down to the tube station at King’s Cross Saint Pancras. For reasons I’m not interested in discussing here, I have for some years now maintained a tradition of celebrating a personal New Year’s Eve with a handful of close friends, a week or so after the actual event. The last two of these celebrations have taken place at the Star, a pub which I have grown fond of for its choice of beer and the open fireplaces that it keeps lit during the winter. I find it a very comforting place.

It was exactly one in the morning when I left, as that was when the pub closed on a Friday, and the only guests still remaining were a colleague of mine named Andrew Barnet, my friend Leanne Hilliard and her husband Mark. All of them will confirm my presence and the time of my leaving. I had originally planned to go home shortly after midnight, and my housemate, Tamara Simpkin, had gone back at that time, but I had been in a rather heated discussion with Andrew, and had stayed until last orders. On my way to the station, I stopped into Crystal Kebab and bought a box of chips which I ate there. I ate slowly, as the wind had picked up and I was not keen to go back out into the cold.

By the time I arrived at the station, I had missed what would have previously been the last Tube. It was with some relief that I realised the Victoria line, which would take me up to my home near Seven Sisters, had recently started running an all-night service on Fridays and Saturdays. I was somewhat reluctant to share my ride home with a carriage full of drunks, but that was always the danger of drinking on a Saturday. So I made my way down the escalators and through the tunnels to the northbound Victoria Line platform.

It was deserted; not a single person was there beside myself. Looking down to the other end, I did see another figure, just one, but they were walking away and out into the rest of the station. It was hard to tell from a distance, but I believe he was holding a shovel of some sort. There hadn’t been a train for almost ten minutes, but at the time I didn’t think much of it.

It was eerie, waiting there, and maybe I should have taken it as a warning sign, but there had been a lot of noise around me all night and now I was relishing the quiet. I hoped that if the platform was this deserted, maybe the train would be quiet as well. Perhaps I could even get a carriage to myself.

The train pulled up as normal. Maybe the brakes squealed a bit more than they should have, but there was nothing that stood out to me as odd. Looking back, maybe the train car was older than it should have been, or dustier, but I wasn’t paying that much attention and I didn’t get a good look at it afterwards. So when the doors opened, I stepped inside and took a seat. I turned out I’d been right, there wasn’t anybody else in the carriage at all. It was just me.

My phone had died two hours before, so I couldn’t listen to my music, and I just sat there in silence as the doors closed and the train began to move forward. At some point the silence stopped being comforting and began to feel as though it were pressing down on me. Even the rumble of the train’s movement seemed to be muted, like it was being muffled somehow.

I tried to take my mind off it. I scanned the adverts pasted above the row of chairs opposite me but they were blank. At least, they seemed blank when I first looked at them. Moving a bit closer I could see that there was something behind the clear plastic. It was dirt. It looked as though each of the adverts had been covered in a layer of dry, tight-packed soil. I turned to the ones behind me, above my own chair, and saw the same thing. I reached up to touch one of them, and was greeted with a small shower of grit, but still couldn’t see anything behind it.

Now that I was looking for it, I could see that it wasn’t only these signs that seemed to be covered in dirt. When I had first got in, I had assumed the carriage was just grimy from a full day of commuters, but everywhere I looked, I saw now that it was a thin dusting of dry earth. It was on the chairs, the floor, even the edge of the windows. Where I had been walking, I could see my footprints clearly on the muddy floor. They were the only pair.

I decided that I was going to get off at the next station. When I reached Highbury and Islington I knew there was a night bus that I could take to get home. It would be slower, but it would get me off this train and that was now making me feel very uncomfortable. So I waited.

I had been travelling for about three minutes at that point and I checked my watch impatiently. Five minutes passed. Eight minutes passed. I was sure we should have arrived at the next station by that point, but the train just kept moving. We hadn’t gone through the next station; I was sure I would have seen it through the windows, and it certainly seemed to be going as fast as it normally would. Faster, maybe, I don’t really know how to measure something like that.

Ten minutes went by, then fifteen, and there was no sign that the train was stopping, or even approaching another station. It shouldn’t have been possible, but it was. I just stood there, trying to keep my balance, not wanting to sit on the seats or hold on to the dusty handrail. The air had become thick, and I could smell the cold damp, like an old basement or a cave.

After almost twenty minutes I walked over and pulled the emergency lever in the hopes that it might have some effect. I had to dig out several handfuls of sticky mud from around the handle before I could even reach it. I gripped it firmly and pulled. It snapped off in my hands and I could see the point where it joined the wall had been eaten away by rust.

That was when I finally decided to sit down and wait it out. Either it would arrive somewhere or it wouldn’t, and if I had managed to wander into some grubby ghost train then there wasn’t much I was going to be able to do about it. I stopped checking my watch and just sat there.

At some point I felt the train beginning to slow. There was no indication of where we were, and the automatic station announcements were silent. I stayed in my seat. It was one of the few times in my life I have regretted being an atheist, as I think I would have valued having a god to pray to. By the end we were going so slowly that I didn’t even notice when we finally stopped for almost twenty seconds. I looked at the doors, but they showed no sign of opening, and the other side was still just the bare wall of the underground tunnel. We were not at a station.

I had already decided that, whatever might be out there, not being in the train was better than staying put, so I did my best to force the doors open. It was surprisingly easy, and once I had gotten them an inch or two apart, something must have tripped and they slid the rest of the way on their own.

The other side was the wall of the tunnel. But rather than the normal cables and construction you would expect from the Underground, this was bare earth. It was slick with damp, and instead of the two-foot gap you would expect to be between the door and the wall, it came right up to the lip of it. There was no clearance at all: the doors seemed to be completely flush with this solid barrier of soil.

As it became clear to me that there was no way I was going to be able to get out of any of the side exits, I was faced, to my mind, with three choices. I could sit there and wait, at the mercy of whatever situation I had found myself in. I could head through the other carriages leading towards the rear of the train and hope I could get off there and walk back along the tunnel. Or I could do the same thing heading towards the front of the train, hoping that there was someone in the driver’s compartment that could explain what was going on. I picked the third option. It was, of course, a mistake.

The doors between the carriages were tiny, and each bore several bright warning signs promising death or prosecution if they were used incorrectly. I ignored these and opened the one leading towards the front of the train. The gap between the cars was slick with mud and a thin rain of dirt trickled down from the roof of the tunnel. I opened the next door and stepped inside.

It was even dirtier in this carriage than in the one I had left, with a distinct layer of muddy soil over everything that I could see. The silence had been replaced by a new noise, a sort of creaking groan that sounded like it was coming from the train itself. It was only later I learned that this is what metal sounds like when under immense strain. I walked briskly through this car, seeing nothing that caught my attention, and opened the next door at the other end, continuing my journey towards the driver.

I hadn’t really seen how long the train was when I got in, but I had been in the middle of platform so I didn’t think it could be more than four or five carriages to the front. This door seemed wedged quite firmly shut, and it was only with a great deal of effort that I was able to pull it open. I almost fell into the space between them while trying to force the next one open. I am sure that if I had done so I would be dead.

When I got into this one the first thing I noticed was the ceiling. In certain places it seemed to have buckled slightly with large dents in the material pushing down. Many of the lights and windows were broken and the whole of the carriage seemed to be bent and twisted slightly, like it was being crushed.

The sound of metal fatigue was stronger here, and I realised with a start that this was exactly what was happening. If it got worse the further through I went, there was a good chance the driver, if there was one, had already been crushed, or at the very least trapped beyond my reach. I turned to go back the way I had come, but the door had swung shut, and in the few seconds it had taken me to understand what was happening, the pressure had already warped the frame too much. It was jammed shut, and no amount of kicking was going to move it.

I was becoming desperate, and looked around for anything I could see that might be a way out. What I saw instead, right at the other end, was a person. It was hard to make out any details, as all the lights in that section were already shattered, but they were sat very still. I called out but there was no response. I made my way over to them, though by the time I reached that part of the carriage I was having to bend down to avoid parts of the ceiling.

It appeared to be a man, probably late fifties, early sixties, with a scraggly grey beard and what had once been a nice jacket. He had sunken blue eyes, and the seat around him had twisted so much it was now holding him in place at an angle that looked very painful. The armrests were digging hard into the flesh of his leg, and his back was crooked. Despite this, he seemed to be breathing.

When he didn’t respond to my voice, I touched him lightly on the shoulder. His eyes opened slowly, and locked on mine. The look on his face was one of incredible sadness, as though all the fear had been sucked out of him and now all that was left was some unspeakable misery. I asked him if I could help, whether we could get out there, but he just shook his head, his neck making horrid cracking noises as he did so.

I felt his hand close around my wrist, gripping it with an unexpected strength. I tried to push him away but his fingernails dug into my skin, drawing blood. A ragged voice hissed out of him, despairing and full of pain. He said to me, “Not enough space to move. Never enough to breathe.” Then he let me go.

By then, the ceiling was almost on top of me and the walls looked like they were close to giving way. I thought about what options I had and, after a few seconds, I lay down on the floor and closed my eyes. Being crushed to death would be horrible, yes, but I have never been afraid of dying, and it didn’t appear that there would be any point to further escape attempts. Better to accept my fate and hope it was all some awful dream.

I kept my eyes shut and tried to relax, as the sound of twisting metal filled my ears and I could feel the floor begin to shift beneath me. It bent up, either side, and slowly began to press inwards. Far away, under the smothering blanket of earth, I could hear the old man screaming.

When I awoke, I was on the platform at Walthamstow Central, with one of the station assistants leaning over me, trying to see if I was alright. I was feeling very groggy and I didn’t want to be answering questions, so I played drunk, ignored his offers to help and stumbled out into the cold night air. There were a few blissful minutes where I thought it had all just been a dream, but then I noticed that I was covered head to toe in mud and dirt. And my wrist ached where five deep red marks made the shape of a clutching hand.

That’s it.

ARCHIVIST
Well, that certainly sounds like an… unpleasant experience. I’m not sure I understand, though. Did you fall asleep, somehow, or…

KAROLINA
I must have done.

ARCHIVIST
That’s… that’s impressive. Do you still take the Tube?

KAROLINA
Of course. I live in London.

ARCHIVIST
Right. I, uh…

KAROLINA
Is there anything else? I’ve told you what happened, so I’m done here, correct?

ARCHIVIST
I suppose so, yes. We’ll look into it, and if we find anything we’ll let you know.

KAROLINA
Don’t bother. I’m done with it. Thank you for your time.

[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Well, that was brusque. Ms. Górka may not be interested in the follow-up, but I am. Since the Night Tube opened there have been a handful of disappearances that occurred where the individuals in question were reported as intending to travel on the late-night London Underground service, mostly on the Victoria and Northern lines. All of them were travelling alone.

The reason none of this has been followed up as related is that CCTV from the appropriate stations does not show the disappeared ever actually arriving. Well, Sasha managed to follow this up, and it would seem that there’s no record of Ms. Górka ever entering King’s Cross Saint Pancras, even though Martin made contact with Leanne Hilliard and confirmed the rest of her story. TFL have been understandably reluctant to comment.

Interestingly, one of the missing, a man named Nicholas Lekman, has a picture that seems to match the description Ms. Górka gave: age 63, slightly unkempt grey beard, blue eyes. He was last seen heading towards Moorgate station at 2:30 on the morning of Saturday the 17th December 2017, following a fight with his son, who does not believe he ever entered the station. Apparently, Nicholas Lekman hated taking the Underground alone as he was a severe claustrophobe.

I should probably mention this to Sasha. I believe she takes the Victoria line to work and has a tendency to stay later than she should. Aside from that, all that’s left to do is sweep up after Ms. Górka. She left the place rather dusty.

End recording.

[CLICK]
Supplemental.

Someone is living down there. In the tunnels. I’m sure of it now. I haven’t found any more pages or detritus that might indicate that the presence of further books, but the more I explore the lower levels, the more normal rubbish I find. Food wrappers, empty bottles, even a newspaper dated last year. They are normally quite meticulous, it seems, as those things I have found tended to be tucked away in places that might have escaped the notice of someone cleaning up after themselves. But they do miss things.

I find it oddly comforting that who- or whatever is down there needs to eat, as it offers some reassurance that they are at least broadly human. But why? And for how long? And how are they getting their supplies? If Basira was taking my calls I would ask for some police assistance, in case it’s some unhinged murderer. Especially as there is every likelihood they were the one that killed Gertrude. Assuming it is only one. Yes, on second thoughts, I might well suspend my explorations until I can talk to Basira and get some assistance.

End supplemental.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Could you say that again? I’ve put you on speaker.

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Maxwell Rayner. Have you heard of him?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Why?

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Who is he?

ARCHIVIST
He was a cult leader back in the Nineties. I don’t know about now.

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
The Church of the People?

ARCHIVIST
The People’s Church of the Divine Host.

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Right.

ARCHIVIST
Is he involved in a case or something?

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
We’re on our way to arrest him.

(PAUSE)
Hello?

ARCHIVIST
No I’m… Yes, I’m here. You’ve found him?

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Not me, but I’m one of the ones going in. There’s a lot of sectioned guys here, so I thought I’d give you a call. Any advice?

ARCHIVIST
Bring torches.

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Torches?

ARCHIVIST
As many as you can get your hands on. How many do you have?

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
Um, there’s a firearms team here, so we should have plenty of tactical lights. So you reckon it’s going to get dark?

[CALL STARTS DISTORTING AND CRACKLING]
ARCHIVIST
Basira? Hello?

BASIRA (ON SPEAKER)
(Almost too distorted to make out) Jon? Jon? Can you hear me?

[PHONE BEEPS AND CUTS OFF]
ARCHIVIST
Oh… damn. Right. [SIGH]

Statement of Craig Goodall, regarding his explorations of an abandoned chicken and kebab shop in Walthamstow. Original statement given 20th October 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I feel like I should be upfront with this right at the beginning. I’m probably a cannibal. I don’t know for sure, but the likelihood is high. You ever hear of Han Yong? Otherwise known as John Haan? I guess it depends on what corners of the Internet you lurk in or what tabloids you were reading in 2004. If you haven’t, let me explain. John Haan ran a small takeaway on Higham Hill Road in Walthamstow.

Weirdly enough, it wasn’t a Chinese; it just served kebab, chicken, burgers… the usual. Well, it went out of business in May 2004 when Mr. Haan was arrested for murdering his wife, Lanying. So far, so mundane, right? Except for the fact that over the previous two weeks John Haan had been disposing of the body the way only a takeaway owner can. He went full-on Sweeney Todd.

Now, the thing is, I live just off Higham Hill Road, and I used to go to that takeaway all the time. I definitely went there a few times in May 2004. I haven’t been able to find out from any of the news reports exactly what he was selling the meat as, but over the course of the month I definitely had chicken wings, doner kebab, chicken kebab and a burger, so there’s a very good chance I ate some of her.

It’s weird, though, everything I’ve found online says that human meat is meant to be very similar to pork, but nothing I was served was like that. I mean, pork is pretty different from beef or lamb or chicken, and I can’t see how it was being easily passed off as any of them. But he must have managed it somehow. Maybe the doner? It was so heavily spiced it would have disguised the flavour, I guess. I don’t know how he would have made it look like doner meat, though. It’s very distinctive and I was always under the impression that you needed to order those huge rotating columns of things specially.

Regardless, the fact of the matter is that I am almost certainly a cannibal. You know the weirdest part, though? The bit I regret most is that I don’t know which of the meals it was. I feel like, if I’ve been tricked into eating a person, I might at least have learned what a human being tastes like. And I don’t really have a problem with the idea, in any sort of moral sense, at least.

I know how that sounds, and I’m certainly not okay with murder, not to mention the issue with prion diseases, but the actual act of eating meat that comes from a human? I’m fine with it. I can’t help but feel that anyone happy to eat other meats is something of a hypocrite if they’re not at least theoretically fine with eating human. There’s nothing inherently special about us. We feel as much pain, see the world with the same eyes as a real pig. Meat is meat. That’s what John Haan said when they arrested him. The only thing he said. Meat is meat.

None of this really changes anything. Whether or not I’ve eaten chicken wing made of person doesn’t actually factor into this, I guess, except that it’s the reason I always kept an eye on the old takeaway. After John Haan was arrested, it was never sold on. Not surprising. It’s the sort of history that people tend not to want in their property investments.

I didn’t move away, though. I kept right on living there, and walked past the old boarded-up shop almost every day. As far as I’m aware it never actually had a name. I mean, it must have, but it wasn’t clear from the front. Over the door was a large, hand-painted sign that simply read ‘FOOD’ in bright white capital letters, while a neon sign that protruded from it glowed with the word ‘GRILL’ on both sides in bright red. As the months of its closure started to turn into years, the old green paint on the window panes gradually started to fade and the large metal sheets that covered the windows and door were almost lost beneath a sea of posters and flyers advertising club nights and escorts.

Sometimes, if the light hit it just right, I could lean in and see inside through the tiny holes in the steel. I could see the bright shine of the fryer, the glass of the heating drawer, the tall column of metal that would have rotated the kebab. It all seemed somehow too clean for it to be so abandoned, and I was sure I could even see the vivid colours of soft drink cans in the clear-fronted fridge.

It was a grey, dull afternoon when I heard it. There was a miserable rain; the sort that doesn’t even fall, it just seems to hang in the air, speckling your face with a fine, soaking mist. There wasn’t a single patch of sky that disrupted the uniform gloom as I walked past the old takeaway. I stopped for a second, staring at the broken old building as I so often did, when I heard a sound from inside. It wasn’t a loud sound, like something small and light falling to the floor.

I went closer, listening, but the sound didn’t come again. Leaning in, I tried to see through to the inside of the building, but the overcast day didn’t give enough light to see by. I stood up, trying to convince myself that I had imagined it, when a cold breeze blew down, cutting through my coat, and I heard laughter. It was so quiet. I could have imagined it. Or maybe it came from one of the houses nearby, but I looked around and the windows were as dark and empty as the sky.

I turned back towards the shop, and noticed for the first time the missing bolts along the edge of the panel that covered the side window. It was ever so slightly ajar. The sound of movement came again, soft and furtive from inside. Someone was in there. I knew that much at least. So I left and called the police.

I walked to the pub across the road, bought a pint of pale ale and sat outside on the wooden benches. The drizzling rain diluted my beer slightly, but I didn’t mind. I waited. Twenty minutes later a police car pulled up, and I sipped my drink as I watched them open up the door and head into the old takeaway.

Through the now-opened entrance I could still see the faded remnants of crime scene tape flapping gently in the wind. There was the sound of shouting, and I saw them pulling out a teenage white boy holding a can of red spray paint. Kid couldn’t have been more than fourteen with a ratty old hoodie, and brand new sneakers the same colour as his paint can. The cops must have talked to the kid for a good ten minutes before they finally took the paint and let him go with a warning, like I knew they would the second I saw him. Figures.

The cops locked the old takeaway back up and went back to get in their car. The rain was coming down heavily now, and the one holding the spray can lost his grip on it. It wasn’t a long drop from his hand to the pavement, but it must have hit a sharp stone or something, because when it clattered onto the ground part of it split open. The red seeped out of it, mixing with the flowing rainwater in a river of colour that made me very uneasy. The cops didn’t seem to care; they just got back in their car and drove away.

I watched the place until I finished my drink. I wanted to see if they’d realise they’d still left the window panel partially open, where the kid had probably got in. If they did, they didn’t come back to fix it. I was soaked to the bone by that point and decided to head home and get dry. My sleep that night wasn’t great. I kept dreaming of a paint can impaled on a rotary kebab skewer. The liquid dripping from it bubbled and boiled in the heat, but it wasn’t paint.

I woke up the next day bleary-eyed and exhausted, but my mind was still on that open window. I just couldn’t shake it, and I knew I wouldn’t be able to relax until I’d got to see the inside of that place. So I called a friend of mine, Leroy Yates, and told him what was going on. His hobby was somewhere in between urban exploration and housebreaking, so I wanted to talk it through with him.

He was over in Homerton, and offered to come help me out. I told him I reckoned I could handle it, but that if I didn’t check in with him in an hour or so, he should come down, in case I had trouble of any kind. I grabbed a quick bite of cold sausage for breakfast, got my big torch and a small prybar, then headed out into the morning.

The rain had stopped but the sun still hadn’t come out and the wet shine seemed to weigh heavily on everything. There was nobody on the street. Most were probably at work already. The old takeaway sat there, the letters of ‘FOOD’ now grey and lifeless. For a second I thought I saw the red neon ‘GRILL’ sign flicker, but I’m pretty sure that was just my imagination, as I know the tubes were busted. I slipped around the side and found the metal panel covering the window was still ajar. I’m a bit bigger than a scrawny teen vandal, but it didn’t take much coaxing before there was a gap wide enough for me to squeeze my way inside.

The air was cold and clean. I was in what must have been the storeroom and food prep area. There wasn’t much light filtering through the tiny holes over the windows, so I turned my torch on and cast it about. It looked like anything perishable had been removed from the place, but other than that it seemed untouched. Sealed cans of pickled vegetables, vats of oil, rows and rows of clean, shining equipment. There wasn’t a speck of dust on any of it, though it certainly didn’t seem like it was in use.

My torch moved over the rest of the room until it fell upon the huge freezer. There were letters sprayed onto it, several inches high. It looked like this was what the kid had been doing. He’d been spraying the phrase ‘MEAT IS MEAT’ onto the door of the freezer, but the cops must have gotten him before he’s finished, so what was actually written upon the matt silver surface were the words ‘MEAT IS ME’.

I’m not going to pretend that a shiver didn’t run right through me. It made me feel ever so faintly ill. In a fit of stubbornness, I decided that the only way to dispel this fear was to open the freezer. To know for sure that there was nothing inside. No meat of any sort. I walked over with a confidence I didn’t really feel and gripped the handle. I took a breath and pulled. Inside the freezer… was absolutely nothing. No meat, no ice, not even a chill. It hadn’t been on in years. I let a sigh of relief. Which is when I heard a very quiet laughter from next to my feet.

I shined my light down and saw a face looking up at me from underneath the counter behind me. The face belonged to a gaunt, pale Chinese man, who looked up at me with a terrifying glee. In his spindly hands he held a pair of bolt cutters, with the blades positioned either side of my ankle. I barely had time to register this when he pulled them closed, cutting through my Achilles tendon. There was an intense spike of agony and I fell forward hard, smacking my head on the side of the counter. And… everything went dark.

When my eyes snapped open, I was laid out on a wooden floor. I couldn’t move and, by the plastic I could feel digging into my flesh, I assumed I had been bound with cable ties. My ankle throbbed with pain, though not as sharply as I would have expected. The room was small and mostly bare, and looking at the windows I guessed I was on the upper floor of the old takeaway. A few shreds of fading sunlight were filtering in through the covered windows, but most of the light in the room came from a trio of oddly textured candles a few feet from my head.

I strained my neck to look around the room. It seemed devoid of furniture but dotted around seemed to be small piles of bric-a-brac. I saw chipped teacups, a stack of what looked like old bibles and then something that made my breath catch in my throat. A small pile of human fingers. I could feel a despairing moan escape my chest before I could do anything to stop it.

At this, there was movement behind me and the man I had seen earlier stepped into view. He was shirtless, and the glow of the candles seemed to illuminate in stark shadow how painfully thin he seemed. He was chewing thoughtfully on something, though I couldn’t see what, and held a long, sharp butcher’s knife in his hand.

I tried to say something, but the words caught in my throat. What the hell are you supposed to say in that sort of situation? After a minute or two, he swallowed whatever he had been eating in a swift gulping motion, like an owl consuming a mouse. He smiled a smile of both satisfaction and expectation, and asked me if I was awake. He spoke with a crisp RP accent, which surprised me. You know what’s messed up? Here was this guy clearly about to kill me and carve me up for meat, and I still somehow felt bad about making the assumption that he couldn’t speak English, like I didn’t want my last thoughts on Earth to be low-key racist.

I tried to ask him who he was, but again my breath caught in my throat. He seemed to notice, though, and walked over to me slowly. He crouched down on his haunches, lowering his face to me, and asked me to speak up. I finally managed to croak out a question, asking who he was, but he just laughed that soft, disorientating laughter.

In a single, smooth motion the knife lashed out, cutting through my bound hands and neatly severing three of my fingers in a sudden burst of white-hot pain. I screamed, both from the injury and the hopes that someone might hear, but my captor didn’t seem to notice or care. Instead he picked up my fingers one by one and tossed them off-handedly onto the pile behind him.

Walking over to the pile of old bibles he picked one up and started to distractedly leaf through it. He started talking again, asking if I knew that one of the reasons the Romans persecuted early Christians was because they believed them to be cannibals. Most people, he told me, assumed it was due to the Romans being confused over the nature of the “body and blood of Christ” that the early Christians were consuming, but that Octavius of Minucius Felix listed all sorts of grotesque accusations, including initiation rites that involved the murdering of an infant and drinking its blood.

He looked over to see if I was listening, which I was, though mostly in the hopes he wouldn’t cut me again. I asked him if he was a Christian, and a look of irritation crossed his face. He shook his head and threw the bible back onto the pile, telling me that I wasn’t listening, that I didn’t understand, that the accusations were obviously false, like any iteration of the old blood libel, so of course he wasn’t a Christian, as they both honour and disregard the body, and then something about their view of the soul.

I was getting really lost at this point; he was rambling on about meat and souls and blood and I just lay there, waiting for him to kill me. I wanted to scream again, try to attract someone’s attention from outside, but I didn’t know what this thin, jagged man would do. He stopped his speech mid-sentence, as though he could tell I was no longer listening, and looked into my eyes with a grin. He started to walk towards me, the knife held loosely at his waist, a wetness on his lips, and in that moment I was a hundred percent sure I was going to die.

All at once a huge, dark shape barrelled into my captor, knocking him to the floor and sending the knife clattering to the ground. It was Leroy. He must have gotten worried waiting and come to find me. He stood over the thin, winded form and kicked it in the ribs, hard enough that I could hear something snap. Then he picked up the knife, walked over to me and cut through the cable ties keeping me in place.

He started to pull me to my feet before I could protest about my ankle, but surprisingly, it seemed to bear my weight without any problems. I looked down and, although I could plainly see dried blood all around it, my ankle was… fine. I stared in disbelief, then looked at my right hand, which still seemed to have all five fingers. It didn’t make any sense. I could still see the ones he had cut-off on the pile. One of them bore my heavy silver ring, while the same finger on my hand did not.

I started to say something about this to Leroy, but as I did there was a sudden heat from behind me. We turned to see one of the candles had been pushed onto the pile of bibles, setting them almost instantly ablaze. I looked around quickly for anything to douse the flames, but I could see nothing, and the fire was already starting to spread up the wall. Leroy and I ran, keen to get away before the fire brigade or police arrived. I didn’t see what happened to the man who had been cutting me, and we didn’t stay to watch the old takeaway go up in flames.

It’s still there, you know. Now a gutted, empty shell, smoke-blackened through the windows. I wonder if they’ll ever get around to tearing it down. It doesn’t really matter, though. I’ve decided to move.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Meat again. Not quite in the volumes of some previous statements, but still, a theme that continues to disconcert. First point to make is that I believe Mr.

Goodall gave us a fake name and details when making his statement, as neither myself nor Sasha have been able to find any record of him to follow up, certainly none that match Martin’s admittedly vague recollections about the man. Tim has confirmed the 27th of September 2009 as the date of the fire that destroyed the takeaway in question, which was registered as “Waltham Express Grill”, but can find no record of anything out of the ordinary about the fire, which was put down to unknown local vandals. We’ve also been unable to find anything on a teenager being picked up for trespass on that property, though that’s not a particular surprise.

I’ve had Martin looking into the case of John Haan, though it’s slow going, as whenever there’s a picture he ends up needing to take a breath of fresh air. Apparently, Haan was second-generation British Chinese, marrying his wife Lanying shortly after she arrived in the country, and setting up Waltham Express Grill. He seems to have been utterly normal, according to the testimony of his former employees.

What Martin did find, is that according to coroner there was a noticeable lack of defensive wounds on what remained of Lanying’s body, and some of the injuries seemed like they might have been self-inflicted. From my perspective, however, what is more interesting is that six months before his arrest, John Haan let the last of his staff go and replaced them with a nephew of his who had recently moved over from China.

The nephew’s name was Haan Tao, although upon moving to this country he took the name ‘Tom Haan’. I’ve checked, and this is the same Tom Haan who was employed at the Dalston meat processing plant from late 2009 until his disappearance in 2013.

I doubt this is the last we hear of him and his strange relationship with meat.

End recording.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Here.

BASIRA
Thanks.

ARCHIVIST
I assume it didn’t go well, then?

BASIRA
[Swallows drink] We lost Altman. Just… wasn’t… paying attention. Don’t know what they’re going to tell his family. Guess it could have been worse, though, if I hadn’t talked to you first. So thanks.

ARCHIVIST
I’m surprised you’re here. Surely you have a lot of paperwork after something like that? A lot of forms to sign?

BASIRA
They’ve given us a few days ‘compassionate leave’. I think they just want us out of the way while they figure out the official version of what happened.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I’d like to hear the real one, if you’re ready?

BASIRA
Yeah. How much context do you need?

ARCHIVIST
You said it started with a kidnapping case?

BASIRA
Yeah. Callum Brodie. Twelve… twelve years old. Disappeared from his home in Dalston three weeks ago. Sitter was asleep when the mother came home, the front door was open, there was no sign of him. There was no forced entry, so it started out as a missing persons case, but they got a witness claiming he’d seen three unknown figures entering the Brodies’ home that night, so it was kicked up to Serious Crime. There was some back and forth with Kidnap Squad since no ransom demand had been made, but not much progress in terms of finding the kid.

I only found out about all this when we were suiting up yesterday. The Brodie case had nothing to do with my department or my borough. When me and Daisy got the call that we were being brought in for an operation to recover the kid, it was… it was totally out of the blue. The sergeant in charge had to brief us in the van.

I had no idea why we’d been called in until I looked at the other officers involved and saw a good few of them… they were fellow signees of a Section 31. Whatever we were heading towards, it was going to be weird. I think the sergeant in charge must have been sectioned as well, but I didn’t know him. It’s not too surprising, though. I mean, it’s not like any of us have a full list of sectioned officers but one must exist somewhere.

It looked like most of the others had made the same connection, and none of us were feeling right about it. I mean, we had a counter terrorist firearms squad with us, which didn’t exactly put my mind at ease.

That said, I wasn’t exactly sad we might be getting some sectioned firearms officers, but it was just a lot, you know? The briefing was pretty short. We were told that Callum Brodie had been found and it was suspected he was being held by a man named Maxwell Rayner, with an unknown number of accomplices. There were suspicions that there might be cult involvement. That’s when I phoned you.

ARCHIVIST
And did the lights help at all?

BASIRA
Oh, I’m… I’m getting to that. I told the sergeant, and he didn’t even ask me where I’d gotten the information. He just nodded and told everyone to load up on torches. The firearms team wasn’t short on tactical gear so, by the time we headed inside, we had two or three heavy duty flashlights each. I had four.

The building was in an industrial complex up in Harringay. It was a two storey brick building with a weathered sign claiming it belonged to Outer Bay Shipping. We were instructed to go inside in teams of two, with one armed officer paired with one sectioned. You… you have to understand, that was massively against protocol, but I guess they wanted to be sure that none of the firearms team encountered anything weird without being accompanied by anyone experienced. I looked around to see if the others were going to make anything of it, but no-one made a peep. I think everyone knew that this was about as far from a normal operation as they came.

I was paired with an older guy. Goodman, I think his name was, though we didn’t really talk. The way he carried his weapon in the van, I could tell he’d been handling it awhile, but I couldn’t help but notice his hands were shaking slightly as we made our way around the building.

We were going in through the loading dock at the rear, and as we approached the security lights that lit the rest of the estate seemed to get dimmer. Well, not dimmer, really, they just didn’t illuminate the place as much as they should have. Aside from a small pool of white light directly below, the darkness around them didn’t seem to be affected. I didn’t have much time to think about it before the order came down and we were going in.

I cut the padlock on the metal gate and slid it up while Goodman gave me some cover. The inside seemed normal. Pallets of boxes were neatly lined up on shelves around the loading bay, and the heavy lamps overhead gave us plenty of light. We started to make a sweep of the area, eyes peeled for anything that looked out of place. I took a second to check a few of the larger boxes but they didn’t contain anything remarkable. Mostly sheets of plastic for manufacturing, although some were full of copper piping or paint. And that’s when I heard the scream.

It came from behind one of the shelves to my left and it didn’t sound like a cry of fear or pain. It was a scream of rage, almost animal-like, and when I turned I saw a figure moving behind me. It was only for a second, but it seemed to be dressed head to toe in black, like a leotard or one of those morphsuits. It was hard to say for sure, as it was less than a second before it darted back behind the shelves and Goodman opened fire.

I hadn’t prepared myself for it, and the sudden gunshot sent a jolt of pain shooting through my head as my eardrums rang with the noise. Goodman called something to me but I couldn’t make out a word of it. I just followed him as he ran around to where the figure had disappeared to. There was no sign of it, although a small spray of fresh blood told me that my jumpy new partner’s aim had been too wide of the mark.

We… we started to hear sporadic gunfire from the rest of the building. I mean, it was basically all I could hear at that point as everything else was still a muffled, high-pitched whine. I was worried Goodman might panic at this, but to his credit he seemed to have pulled himself together and we finished the sweep of the loading bay before heading through to the rest of the building.

I saw a handful of armed officers heading up the stairs to the upper floor, and I was going to follow them when I felt a tug on my arm. Goodman was… he was saying something and pointing towards the other direction. I saw a pair of uniforms and a face I recognised. Leo Altman, one of the sectioned officers from up in Waltham Forest. I had met him once before, when Daisy took me out for some very quiet drinks with a few other sectioned cops she knew. I remembered him being one of the friendlier ones, though he still stopped short of telling any stories.

Leo was stood with an armed officer that I didn’t know. From her lack of trigger discipline it looked like she was either very new or seriously rattled. They were staring down a long metal staircase that seemed to lead into what must have been the building’s basement. The briefing hadn’t mentioned anything about a basement, and it was clear they weren’t entirely sure how to proceed.

When me and Goodman joined them it seemed to make up their minds and, with a quick nod to us, Leo and his partner started to head down. I didn’t want to follow, and I could see that Goodman wasn’t too keen either, but we weren’t just going to leave them without backup, so down we went.

At the bottom of the stairs was a door. It was old and made of steel that had started to rust around the edges. But… it wasn’t right. You know how when the lights are turned on in a room and you can see it from outside? Like, a thin line of light leaking under the doorway? Well, it was like that, except what seemed to seep out from underneath it wasn’t light.

It was shadow. Like, if darkness was somehow shining from behind it. As I got closer I started to hear something. I couldn’t really tell what it was under the buzzing in my ears, but the best way I could describe it is that it sounded like a waterfall, but slowed right down. A steady, flowing crash and churn, but deep and drawn out. I wanted to ask the others if they heard it as well, but Leo was already moving to open the door. I barely had time to get my torch out.

I’m glad I did, though, because as the door opened, every light in the building went dark.

That moment I was in complete darkness had to be one of the longest seconds of my life. I felt like I’d gone blind. Not just my eyes but everything. Like every sense I had was severed and the only thing I could feel was a wave of nausea. It seemed like, for that second, I wasn’t anywhere that light had ever reached. Then, I clicked the button on my torch and the beam cut right through it.

The flashlight was weak, nothing like the power I would have expected from the heavy bulb, but the faint glow was enough to bring me back to myself. I shone it behind me, over the pale, panicked faces of the others and, as it touched each of them, I saw them start and reach for their own torches. Soon four pale beams were struggling out into the thick, aggressive gloom.

I turned around, trying to shine the light on the wall or even the door we came in from, anything that would give me a sense of the room we were standing in, but it just disappeared into the pitch dark in all directions. Thinking about it now, I realise, we never actually walked through the door.

Small flecks of black dust floated in the air, like… like inky snow. They moved gently through the torchlight and they never seemed to settle on the ground, and I began to realise how cold it was. Everything was so still, and the only sound was the same dull roar from up ahead of us. I don’t know how long we stood there, but when my torch sputtered and died, I knew we didn’t have long.

I took out another and turned it on. The light seemed even fainter than the first one. Still, it was something, and we started to walk forward, or at least what we assumed was forward. If anyone said anything I didn’t hear it. The black dust danced in front of us, but it never seemed to actually touch us or land on our clothing. There was no smell at all here. The building above us had smelt of sawdust, old metal and industrial cleaner, but down here there was nothing. I didn’t… I didn’t shine my torch upwards. I didn’t want to see if there was a roof over our heads.

By this point we had easily walked the whole length of the building several times and still hadn’t seen anything. The roar was getting louder and louder, until it was all that was in my head. The four of us were all on our second or third torches by that point, and I could feel that I was starting to panic. There was a scream building up inside of me, clawing its way up my throat. Actually, you know what? I might have been screaming. I don’t know. It was… it was impossible to tell over the noise and the thick, choking darkness. Then Goodman’s flashlight beam hit something ahead of us and it… it all went to hell.

I think it took about five seconds. Everything seemed to happen at once, and only going over it in the reports afterwards was I able to process what I saw. Five seconds and everything was over, but I’ll try and describe it in as much detail as I can.

Goodman’s torch beam had landed on an old man. He was tall, but I couldn’t say much more than that. His body was hidden in the folds of a robe of some sort. It was the same colour as the dust that had filled the air and seemed to move and shift in the same way. His white hair was thin and wild, covering an unkempt face and a scraggly beard. His eyes were milky white. I think he was blind. From the description the sergeant had given us, I was sure this was Maxwell Rayner.

Next to him was an old chair that looked like it could have come from a dinner table. The wood was stained, covered in dark mould, and tied to it with thin metal wire was Callum Brodie. The kid’s eyes were blank, though not clouded like the old man’s, and his face was locked in a silent scream.

Rayner was facing him, thin, bony hands raised to his face. Something was… something was flowing out of his mouth. It looked like ink, but it flowed more like a heavy fog than any sort of liquid. It drips down his forearms and onto the floor, where it… it rolled towards Callum, climbing up the chair and oozing across the boy’s body towards his face. It was moving slowly, and had just reached his chest. The roaring sound seemed to come as it convulsed out of the old man’s mouth.

Then Goodman opened fire. The muzzle flash seemed impossibly bright as it cut through the dark and… I could swear that, for a second, the room it lit up was not a basement but a cathedral. He let off three shots in a quick burst, and every one of them hit Rayner square in the chest. His robe twitched violently as he staggered backwards, and all the dark liquid suddenly washed down onto the floor in a single movement, leaving Callum untouched. It still gushed from his mouth, though, and as the shots tore through him he spun about and an arc of the dark substance flew through the air.

Altman had started running towards them as soon as he had seen the kid, and was almost at the chair when the wave of it spewed out. A few droplets hit him on the cheek and he started to howl and claw at his face. Goodman fired again at Rayner, dropping him to the ground, and the horrendous noise stopped suddenly, leaving only Leo’s cries of pain.

The lights came on all at once, and in the sudden painful brightness none of us had time to do anything as a woman who hadn’t been there a moment ago ran up to Leo. She wore a robe similar to the old man’s, and by the time any of us had seen the knife in her hand she had buried it in Altman’s throat. More gunshots, this time from the officer who had partnered with Leo, but she was too slow. By the time the woman with the knife had been dropped, he was already bleeding out on the floor.

Five seconds. Two dead kidnappers, one dead police officer… and silence. We were standing in a small basement room lit by dingy fluorescent bulbs, no sign of the black liquid or any sort of dust. The kid seemed fine. I mean, I’m sure he’ll need a lot of counselling, but he didn’t seem physically any worse for wear.

Goodman went to untie him while I ran to check on Altman. It was too late, of course, but as I looked at his still, cold face, I saw his eyes were a milky white.

The rest of the squad arrived a few seconds later and helped to take us back out to the van. After that it was all questions, debrief cups of coffee I never quite got around to drinking. And Section 31 forms. Lots of them.

All in all there were five people killed in that building, including Leo Altman. Aside from Rayner and the woman, who was identified from an old report as Natalie Ennis, two more were shot and killed when they attacked some of the other officers. Three more were subdued and arrested, but as far as I know they still haven’t said a word. God knows how they’re going to process them with all the secrecy around the operation, but thankfully that’s not my problem. I think they were connected to that cult group from way back, the Church of the Divine whatever.

ARCHIVIST
The People’s Church of the Divine Host. Rayner was their leader back in the early Nineties. I have a few statements related to them if you’re interested. Natalie Ennis was actually one of the…

BASIRA
No. I’m not interested. Not even a little. I’ve been thinking a lot over the past few days, and I’m done. With the police, with Section 31, all of it. I wanted to tell you in person. And give you the statement. It seemed the least I could do.

ARCHIVIST
You’re really quitting?

BASIRA
Yeah. And you should too. This place… It’s not right. Goodbye, John.

[DOOR OPENS]
ARCHIVIST
Basira, wait. What about the tapes?

BASIRA
What?

ARCHIVIST
The tapes. Fr… from Gertrude’s case. Is there any way I can-

[DOOR CLOSES]
No, I suppose not.

[CLICK]
Well, that seems to close the book on Maxwell Rayner. Maybe the whole People’s Church of the Divine Host. I can’t help but feel I’ve got the last chapter of a story and I don’t even know the title. At least I hope it’s the last chapter. I still can’t find much about the company Outer Bay Shipping. Looks like a shell corporation, but tracking corporate ownership is not something I’m skilled at.

I’m disappointed with Ms. Hussain’s decision. It’s not exactly a surprise, though. I’ve… thought about quitting myself. It’s not an option, of course. I’m in far too deep now. I get the impression that to quit would be giving up whatever small protection I seem to have here. I just wished… I don’t know.

Oddly enough, all I can think about is: how did the police know where Rayner was keeping the boy? Basira didn’t seem to know, and the Church clearly wasnn’t expecting the police to arrive. With a few exceptions, Rayner managed to stay off the grid for two decades. How did they find him now? Someone must have known what was happening and tipped them off. And I don’t think it was anyone inside that building.

End supplement.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Lydia Halligan regarding her insomnia. Original statement given 8th June, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I don’t know when I last slept. It’s not that I can’t remember, it’s just that I can’t really tell. When I manage to steal an hour or so, if that’s even happened, my dreams seem so vivid and my waking so disjointed, that they blur together. Like all I have are scenes and images, devoid of context, and no true way to tell what is real and what is not.

I’m lying in my bed. It’s hot. I know the central heating is off but the air still has that dry warmth that scratches your throat. I want to get up, to move, but my body is too tired, all the strength in it gone. I just lie there, watching the ceiling fan spin round and around and around, a dull whirring that grinds against my brain. It is dark outside, and the only light is the glow from my small bedside lamp. As I watch it, my eyes adjusting to the motion, the fan slows. It loses its momentum gradually, until at last it is completely still and there is silence. I wait, and it begins to turn again in the other direction. Now spinning anticlockwise, it accelerates until the blades are once again a blur. I do not remember my flat having a ceiling fan when I moved in.

I’ve always had problems sleeping. Even as a child, my mother would always check my room to find me reading well into the night. If I heard her coming up the stairs, I would turn off my light and dive beneath the covers to try and convince her I was sound asleep. If it worked, I would listen to her walk off to her room, and then bring out my book once again. At the time I thought it was because I loved reading, but looking back I think it must have been the first stirrings of insomnia.

There is a billboard outside my flat. It overlooks a small roundabout and used to have adverts for whatever the latest TV drama was. The metal that holds it up is old and rusted, and sometimes I think I can hear it groaning ever so quietly as I walk past. Now it has an advert for coffee. I assume that is what it’s advertising. It’s a woman, bright and cheerful, with a sky-blue blouse and shining white smile. She holds a cup of coffee, the steam rising and curling in front of her eyes. There is no brand name or information, just the words, “Sleep is overrated” in a tall, thin font. I don’t know how long it has been there. Her eyes seem to look in through my window.

I work as a freelance writer. It’s not a good job. Very little of it actually involves writing, the rest is chasing up invoices, desperately firing off pitches and worrying over a budget spreadsheet that doesn’t add up. I always thought it suited my schedule, allowing me to be flexible, but it has in many ways just robbed me of any connection to the way the rest of the world organises itself. I never know what day of the week it is. When I don’t sleep the days and nights just bleed together. Sometimes it feels that even my clock is lying to me, telling me that an hour lasts so much longer than it should, then stealing an entire morning in the blink of an eye.

There is a man in my living room. He is tall, with sandy blond hair that twists into unruly curls. I must have invited him in. He sits in my armchair, drumming his fingers together. They make an odd, clacking sound when they touch. I know him, though I have no idea where we might have met. His smile is friendly but I don’t like it. I apologise, tell him I’ve forgotten his name and he waves it away, saying that names are overrated, then asks how my day has been. I tell him I don’t know which day he means, and he laughs and laughs and laughs until my nose begins to bleed. I see the blood dripping onto the patterns I have been drawing. How long have I been drawing? It isn’t my pen.

What’s the longest you’ve ever stayed awake? As a student I liked to push myself, conduct little experiments on my own capacity for fatigue, time how many hours and then try to beat my record. After a while I stopped counting, though for some reason I never really stopped thinking of them as experiments. At first I tried to convince friends to stay up with me. Sometimes they would but they never lasted more than forty hours, and I always felt too awkward to stay up after they had crashed. Eventually, I began just doing it alone, relishing the feeling that I had somehow seen beyond what they were able to.

I’m sitting in a cafe. It’s open all night and I go there when I’m feeling restless late at night. I try to imagine I’m sitting in Hopper’s “Nighthawks at the Diner”, but there is a thin layer of grease on the plastic tables that dispels any romanticism about the place. I’m drinking a cup of coffee. The coffee is awful, the cheapest instant that money can buy wholesale. I don’t care. It is black and opaque and when I drink it, I can feel the tiniest bit of life seep through me as the caffeine enters my blood. I take a long sip and stop. The coffee has something in it. Smooth and hard. I spit it onto the table. It’s a tooth. I check, but I am not missing any. It’s small, like a child’s milk tooth, and it just sits there. The waitress comes over to see if I want food, even though I never do. Her name tag reads “Vanessa”. I point to the shiny white lump now lying on the table. I don’t think she sees it, and if she does, she does not react. She goes to get me more coffee.

Your vision goes strange when you don’t sleep for a long time. I think it’s something to do with changing pressure on your eyeballs. You start to detect faint movements on the edges, on the periphery, and if you stare too long at a flat surface it starts to gently pulse and move. I wrote a short story once where it was things trying to push through into our dimension, strange ghostly creatures that could only be seen by those who had so deprived themselves of rest that their mind opened itself. In the end the protagonist finally saw them fully, and they blinded her. But maybe it’s just the mind becoming too tired to properly process the signals your eyes send. So much of what we see and hear are just useful lies that our brain tells us, filtering out the useless bits and adding in what it expects to see. No-one ever knows what they’re really seeing or hearing.

The billboard is damp. A sudden rainstorm has soaked it through and the paper peels away at the corner. The sky-blue blouse is now mottled and mouldy; the smile has warped into a sneer. The coffee is still steaming, the swirls of the steam unaffected by the rain, though the brightness in her eyes has turned into a vicious glare. I can see the rust in the metal supports more clearly now, and they seem to bend ever so slightly when they groan. The text now reads: “Sleep is for the weak”.

When you don’t sleep, your energy goes in cycles. Your body will go through phases where it seems to be trying to completely shut itself down, and keeping your eyes open is quite literally a physical struggle. Then all at once you’ll enter a period of manic energy, a second, third or fourth wind that leaves you giddy and nauseous, struggling to find an outlet for your sudden rush. Sometimes there is a euphoria with this; other times it’s more like desperation. As you get further and further into it, these cycles get closer and closer together, until your entire self seems to change hour by hour. Of course, when you have insomnia, it doesn’t matter how much your body tries to send you to sleep in the lulls, it simply doesn’t have the ability to do so. Like your whole self is trying to push you into bed, but it is covered by a solid granite block.

The man is back. This time I am on a bench in the park. The clouds roll and curl gently in the pale sky of dawn. He is twisting long blades of grass into strange spirals, but his fingers keep cutting through them instead. Is this when we met? He looks at me, his face impassive… if I even see a face. He tells me that I look terrible. I try to focus, but his body shifts and undulates like so much else when I try to focus. I tell him I haven’t slept, and he nods and tells me that’s ok. He is lying, and it makes me very afraid.

They say that sleep is the most important factor in long-term health. Night workers are apparently at risk for all sorts of problems but not nearly so much as shift workers who are never able to settle into a proper long-term sleep schedule. The body needs time to rest and repair itself. Caffeine and drugs and adrenaline can give you all the energy you need, but they can’t give you the rest that keeps you healthy. I don’t like to think about what this might be doing to my insides, what it might lead to in the future, but it doesn’t really matter. Time is not exactly as firm a concept to me now as it perhaps once was. My head is too heavy to give much thought to a clock.

I am running through the city. The alleyways are narrow and winding and do not turn all the directions that they should. The smell chokes me and my body is heavy as stone. I lean against a wall and, for a second, I am unsure if I will ever be able to stand myself up again. I stagger through another street then I stop. I lie down on the tarmac and it is warm and soft under me. I feel sleep begin to overtake me, but I am wrong. It is dawn, and all that comes over me is faint and sickly sunlight. I can hear his laugh again, and my mouth tastes like burnt coffee.

I do not know why I am here. I know this place and what you want, but I have no proof to give you. I have nothing that cannot be waved away as a bad dream. By you, at least. I cannot wave, for my arms are too heavy and my hands are busy drawing those strange, familiar curves. What do you want? To find a child’s tooth and hold it up triumphant, a talisman to conjure those things that you should fear. To photograph and analyse a billboard that has never once advertised coffee. To talk to a person who is not a person and whose strange laugh you should be fleeing? I am here, and I give you my words. They are all I have, and all you want, and perhaps when I am free of them then I will be allowed to sleep.

I am standing before the billboard. It is night, though a nasty ray of daylight makes it glow a dying pink. The roundabout is empty and will never see a car again. It just goes around and around and around with no way on and no end to be had. The woman is baring her teeth in a triumphant snarl, her blouse now stained with the same rust that laces through the bars that support her. Her eyes slough off her face, revealing the twisted shapes of whatever the poster is that sits behind her. The steam that rises from the coffee is the same. Always the same, always undisturbed, curling in on itself. The words that stand stark above it: “Sleep no more”. I walk toward the billboard, and my sobs are drowned out by the screaming of rusted struts as they bend. The scream of the metal, buckling under the fatigue, the scream of the woman as she bears down upon me. It collapses on top of me, and I collapse with it.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Erm… a difficult statement. I am forced to agree with Ms. Halligan regarding how verifiable what she says is. There’s no way to confirm it isn’t a series of bad dreams. It sounds like a series of bad dreams. A cry for help from a woman with a very severe problem. There are no details to follow up, save for Ms. Halligan herself, who passed away from a heart attack less than a month after giving this statement. She was 29.

This time last year I would have dismissed her as a kook, wasting our time. But a year changes a lot, and I now recognise the description of a tall man with curly blond hair and a unnerving laugh all too well. Michael, did you drive her to this? Another victim of your warped games? Or were you simply drawn like a vulture? Or maybe a shark sensing blood. What do you want from your victims?

I’m rather glad I don’t really drink coffee.

End recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Supplemental.

I know who’s living in the tunnels. Well, that’s not exactly true. I don’t know their identity, but I’ve seen them. Shortly after Basira came to see me, I decided not to request her help with the tunnels. It has become clear she has her own concerns to be dealing with, and I am becoming less and less convinced that further police involvement won’t result in more issues down the road. So, shortly after she left, I decided to get somewhat more proactive and purchased a small motion-sensor camera, which I hid in view of the trapdoor. After a week, I reviewed the footage.

It is remarkably poor quality, far below what the specifications of the setup should yield. It may be I was unfair to Elias about his difficulties setting up CCTV in the Archives. Nonetheless, I was able to make out enough. For a start, I saw Sasha, on two separate occasions, entering and leaving the tunnels. I assume she must have gotten a copy of the key from somewhere, but it seems that when I met her down there earlier she probably wasn’t simply following me out of concern.

It’s not enough to confront her with yet; if she’s working against us I don’t want to tip my hand too early, but I’ll keep a closer eye on her. There’s definitely something she’s hiding. It may even be she knows the other individual I saw emerging from the trapdoor.

As I said, I do not recognise them. They appear to be a man, or at least male-presenting. Middle-aged or older judging from the frame, but hard to be sure. They emerge around three in the morning, holding what appears to be an attaché case. Then, they spend about half an hour rifling through archives, and retreat back down after stuffing a handful of files into the case.

On the one hand, this does reassure me that whatever’s down there is human, but what worries me is the manner they leave the trapdoor. Rather than picking the lock or forcing their way through, they seem to move the floor itself out of their way somehow, and replace it when they return. I’ve triple checked, and the area surrounding the trapdoor is completely solid. Human or not, that worries me.

I will leave the camera set up for now and, hopefully, gather some further information, maybe get a clearer picture of their face. Whatever this individual may be, I do not want to confront them unprepared.

End supplemental.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Stephen Walker, regarding his brother’s disappearance from the top of Tour Montparnasse in October 2006. Original statement given November 7th, 2006. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I hope my brother is dead. He must be dead. I would love to believe that this is all some elaborate prank, some bizarre attempt to fake his own disappearance, but deep down I know that’s not my brother. So he is dead. If not, I can’t even begin to comprehend how dreadful a fate that would be. Some fears can only be endured for so long.

My brother Grant was always afraid of heights. I remember we used to climb trees as children. He would always get scared halfway up, and it would be an hour of coaxing and reassurance before he managed to climb down. He still tried to climb them, though. That was my brother: always full of bravery and optimism until the moment the terror set kicked in. He never did have the strongest survival instinct.

Generally he was fine with tall buildings, if they had a lift. Stairs were often more of a problem, especially if there were windows from which he could see the ground getting further away. Still, the majority of his phobia, strangely enough, was focused on ladders.

That’s not to say he fainted with horror just being in the same room as one, just that climbing up and down ladders was a particular sort of torture for Grant. Those few occasions when I saw him do so, the stark white terror I saw etched on his face with every slight rattle or shift of the thing, was enough to convince me that this wasn’t some quirk to be gently mocked over Christmas dinner; it was a real and intense manifestation of his phobia.

For the most part it didn’t affect our lives that much. We shared a small house in Jarrow, up near Newcastle, and it took more than a second floor to freak Grant out, although he pointedly never climbed the small stepladder that lead up to the attic. The living arrangements were less than ideal, as Grant had been abruptly fired from his admin position with Deloitte in January so he didn’t contribute much to the house except for an indentation on the sofa. I hadn’t really wanted to take him in. I mean, it’s not that I don’t love him or anything, he’s my brother, it’s just that we’d always got on best when we spent most of our time apart. Familiarity does breed some sorts of contempt better than others, and I knew that we were unlike to be domestically suited to each other, as I am by nature quite fastidious in ways that I know my brother is not. However, I had recently gone through a break-up, and there were only so many well-meaning hints from my parents about what to do with the newly-spare room that, in the end, I caved and invited him to live with me.

Work had been slow coming for Grant. By the time he lost the job with Deloitte, his knowledge of database administration had been so specific and specialist, that he was struggling to find jobs that fit his skillset. Which meant more time for him to spend making our living room look like a bombsite.

I’m sorry. I know how this must sound, but I feel it’s important you understand why I took him up to Tour Montparnasse in the first place. I couldn’t have known what would happen. Deep down, though, in the hidden corners of my scepticism, I know it’s not my fault. I know it’s because of the man with the lightning scar. He did this. I don’t know how and I don’t know why, but he took my brother away from me, and if I ever see him again, I’m going to kill him.

The first time we saw him was when I broke my arm. It was about a year ago, just after Halloween. We’d both been out to a party the night before; I had managed to lose my keys, and it was only as we approached our front door that Grant decided it was the right time to announce he’d left his keys in the house, assuming I’d have mine. I was quite upset by this, and we had something of a row out there in the front garden, both of us yelling through blistering hangovers. We couldn’t get a locksmith, as that would take hours and cost us a lot of money that, with Grant unemployed and living with me, I did not have. After another few minutes of recriminations, I spotted that Grant had left his window ever so slightly ajar. Normally I would have reminded him that leaving a window open invites burglars, but in this case that was almost exactly what we wanted.

I knocked on the door of the house next to ours. Jim Hancock was not the best of neighbours. He was the closest thing to a cartoon Cockney that I’ve ever met, and had a habit of blasting music loud enough to bleed through the walls of our terraced house. He was, however, a builder, which meant that he would have a ladder. He did and, after having a nice abrasive laugh at our situation, he went and fetched it. He wasn’t interested in helping with the actual entrance to our home, and told us to leave the ladder in front of his garden, apparently unconcerned by the prospect of thieves.

Obviously I was the one going up the ladder. We placed it in the garden, trying to get the end nestled in the crook of the window, and I started to climb. It was less stable than I had anticipated. Grant was gripping it at the bottom, but the ground was softer than I thought, and as I reached for the window, I felt my stomach drop as the ladder pitched slowly to the side. I’d love to say that next thing I knew I was on the ground with a broken arm, but I remember every second of that fall. Like it was happening in slow motion. The rush of cold autumn air as I fell. The impact of my arm against the low brick wall. The sickening crunch.

I lay there, my arm in absolute agony, as Grant ran over to check on me. It was clear that the bone was broken and we needed to call an ambulance. My phone had been smashed in the fall, and when I asked Grant to use his, he got very quiet and told me sheepishly that it, like his keys, was still inside the house. Grant started knocking on people’s doors but no-one answered. Maybe they weren’t home, or maybe they had heard our blazing row and didn’t want to help us. Even Jim didn’t seem inclined to open his door a second time. It was becoming more and more clear that our only option was for Grant to climb in and get his phone, and I could see from his pale, frightened face that he had come to the same conclusion.

To his credit, I didn’t have to talk him into it. My obvious agony seemed to do that for me. He hoisted the ladder off the ground and pushed it close to the window. Then he stood there at the bottom, droplets of sweat visible on his face, and looked at me. He placed his foot on the lowest rung and began to climb. It was slow and watching it was almost as painful as my shattered bone. His neck was rigid, stiff with the will not to look down. He was barely ten feet off the ground, and every time the ladder shifted slightly he made a small sound of terror. He kept his face away from me but I think he might have been crying.

It was as Grant was making his gradual ascent that I saw the man with the scar. He was stood there, just across the street, watching us. He was short, and wore an old grey suit, faded with age, that didn’t seem to match his relatively youthful face. He wasn’t wearing a tie, and the top two buttons of his shirt were undone, revealing a jagged array of pale white scar tissue that seemed to climb up the side of his neck like a flash of lightning. His pale eyes were entirely focused on Grant making his excruciating way up the ladder. If he noticed me watching him, he gave no sign of it. When I looked at him, I had the strangest feeling, like a wave of dizziness washing over me, and my stomach dropped again, like it had when I fell. I tried to tell myself it was just from the pain in my arm making me feel ill, but it faded every time I looked away from that strange, scarred man who watched my brother.

I looked back to Grant, who was nearly at the top and clearly struggling. His hands were so slick with sweat he was having trouble holding on to the metal rungs, and he was swaying dangerously. I was certain I was about to watch him fall like I had, but just as I was sure he was about to lose his grip he reached out and got his arm into the open window. He grabbed hold of something inside, and started to pull himself through.

Soon his torso had disappeared into the window, then his legs. Everything was quiet; I suddenly felt very alone. I turned to look at the man with the scar but it seemed like he had decided to move on. I could see him a little way down the street, walking away faster than I would have expected. I just lay there, with nothing to keep me company but the pain of my injury.

Then I heard the sound of the latch, cutting through the silence, and the front door opened to reveal Grant, still soaked in sweat, triumphantly clutching his phone. I congratulated him on overcoming his fear before gently reminding him that the reason we needed the phone was to call an ambulance. He nodded like he hadn’t forgotten, and made the call.

The ambulance and hospital did pass in a bit of a blur. There was an X-ray, and a lot more detail about the specifics of the break than I really thought was necessary for the treatment instructions of “keep it in a cast and try not to move it”. It was irritating, but it wasn’t as if it was the first time I had broken a bone. Time passed, I healed, and I forgot about the strange man who had watched my brother almost fall.

My brother finally got another job shortly before Christmas, with Deloitte again, though a different department, but he didn’t seem inclined to move out of the room in my house. He did offer to cover the rent for a few months, which I did appreciate, as paying it solo had wiped out a good deal of my savings. It wasn’t like I had other housemates lining up to join me, so I resolved to make the best of it and live with his irritating habits. It was fine, you know. We didn’t get on any better than we had when he was unemployed, but without the lingering resentment of money I could just about tolerate his occasional hygiene issues. And life rolled on.

It was about two months ago that I started planning for Paris. There was a conference I was due to speak at, and I hadn’t had a holiday since I broke up with Carly, so I decided to take a full week there to really relax. I did not invite Grant, which you would have thought would make him think twice about coming with me, but you’d be wrong. As soon as I mentioned it to him, he was online checking if there were any more seats on my flight. There were. Then he kept bugging me to change my hotel booking to a twin room until I finally relented and did so. Every time I mentioned something I was planning to do he would invite himself along, generally getting me to arrange it and saying he’d pay me back. I’m sure he intended to, and was just excited to spend some time hanging out in Paris, but at the start of October he lost his job again.

He had been caught smoking weed on company property. It hadn’t been on the clock at the time, and he managed to talk them out of actually calling the police, but he was dismissed on the spot and told in no uncertain terms that he was not welcome to apply for any further vacancies. I imagine he wasn’t going to get a reference, either. He was devastated, of course, and I will admit that I wasn’t as sympathetic as I could have been. From my point of view, it was his own damn fault; because of it I was suddenly on the hook for a reasonable amount of money. It was clear that when we went to Paris I was going to have to pay for him, and he was so despondent that I didn’t have the heart to tell him he couldn’t come.

So that’s why, when we went to Paris three weeks ago, I was both seriously pissed at Grant, and in almost complete control of where we went while we were there. I think that’s why I decided to take him up Tour Montparnasse. There was no way I was going to get him up the Eiffel Tower, but I reckoned, correctly, that he wouldn’t have heard of the Tour Montparnasse, the actual highest point in Paris accessible by the public. It just looked like a normal skyscraper, so I reckoned it probably wouldn’t ring any alarm bells for him until we were actually in the lift.

You’ve got to understand I just wanted to freak him out a little bit. He’d have a bit of a panic, I’d pretend to have forgotten about his phobia, and we’d head back down with me feeling slightly avenged. I couldn’t have known.

At first it was all going exactly according to plan. I was vague about the attraction we were going to see, and he clearly hadn’t heard of the Tour Montparnasse, so he didn’t make any fuss when we went inside, even when we first got into the elevator. As it started to rise, though, I saw the apprehension start to creep across his face and he asked where the lift was taking us. I had to fight to suppress a smile as I told him we were heading up to the best view in Paris and his face started to drain of colour. By the time we reached the top his legs were shaking so badly he was finding it hard to stand. I feigned concern, though inside I was savouring his discomfort more than was probably healthy.

I helped him out of the lift, and he turned around almost immediately, about to get back in, but something about the idea of going back down again so soon clearly caused him to hesitate. He mumbled something about sitting down and collecting his thoughts, and staggered over to a seat a good distance away from the barriers that surrounded the building’s rooftop observation terrace.

I left him to collect his thoughts and walked over to the edge. The view was breathtaking. I could see all of Paris stretching out before me, including the Eiffel Tower. And in the mid-morning sun it was one of the most beautiful and serene things I had ever seen.

It was as I gazed at the majestic city below me that I felt a lurch in my stomach, like I was falling, and I pitched forward into the barrier, bruising my arm and sending an agonising echo of my broken bone shooting up my body. I braced myself on my hands and knees, trying to overcome the sudden swimming nausea in my head. Finally, I managed to centre my vision enough to look up and there he was. There was an icy breeze that high up, but he seemed not to notice as his loose, thin shirt billowed around that sprawling white scar. He stared at me, and I felt again like I was falling right through the floor. I tried to speak, say anything, but my breath seemed caught in my chest. The worst part, though, was his expression. He looked bored.

At some point I felt hands gripping me and I was pulled gently from the floor. It was a pair of tourists from New Zealand who had come over to see if I was alright. I mumbled something about vertigo, though the feeling had faded now. I looked around, but there was no sign of the scarred man. I looked again, and realised with mounting alarm that there was also no sign of Grant. I checked, but the terrace wasn’t huge and there was nowhere for him to be hiding. I thought he must have taken the lift back down, but he wasn’t in the lobby, or outside, or anywhere. He was gone.

I didn’t realise my phone was dead until several hours into the search. When I finally charged it, I had dozens of missed calls from Grant and almost four hundred text messages. Most were too scrambled to read, but those that weren’t were asking where I was. Where anybody was. Where the elevators were.

There was one picture that seemed to have come through without too much corruption: it seemed to show the terrace, but where the barrier should have been was just a sheer drop, with the top of a ladder reaching up and over it. I couldn’t make out the city below it. I tried to call his phone so many times, but whenever it actually connected, all I heard was the sound of rushing wind.

I know that man with the scar took my brother. I don’t know how he took him, or where, but I know he’s gone. I haven’t seen either of them since, and I don’t think I will. It never felt like I was what he wanted. I really hope Grant is dead. Because, if not, I have a horrible feeling deep inside that he’s still on that ladder.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Michael Crew. The man with the lightning scar. A fractal pattern burned into his flesh, chased by the manifestation of that pattern and then jumped out a window. So what is he now?

It strikes me that whenever a person gains any sort of power from these books, often they change, not just their actions, but who they are. It almost seems as though the power uses them, rather than the other way round. Did Leitner’s book do something to Michael Crew? Others who encountered it reported similar feelings of vertigo to those reported by Mr.

Walker, but it also puts me in mind of the fate of Robert Kelly, the skydiver who fell for far longer than he…

[DOOR OPENS]
Hello? Basira, what are you doing here? I thought…

BASIRA
Here.

[SOUND OF A BOX HITTING A TABLE]
ARCHIVIST
Are those the tapes?

BASIRA
As many of them as I could get.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t understand. You said we were done.

BASIRA
[SOUND OF EXASPERATION]
They’re covering it up. Altman’s death. Saying he was dirty. That he got stabbed in a botched drug deal.

ARCHIVIST
Wait. So the operation you went on…

BASIRA
Doesn’t exist. I mean, I didn’t know Leo well, but… it’s not right. And they seemed happy enough to get me out the door.

ARCHIVIST
I still don’t understand why this leads to me getting the tapes. I mean, not that I’m ungrateful.

BASIRA
Well, they’re sure as hell not going to solve Gertrude’s murder, so you might as well have them. Before… I don’t know, maybe I still had enough police in me not to just steal from Evidence, but now…

ARCHIVIST
They’ve rather lost your loyalty. I thought they were watching you?

BASIRA
No, not since the Brodie op. Everyone’s been too busy. Daisy knows, and she’s fine with it. There shouldn’t be any problem until next inventory, and even then it’s only if they can be bothered with the sectioned stuff. You should be in the clear.

ARCHIVIST
I… I don’t know how to thank you.

BASIRA
Well, if I never see you again, or hear about any of this… that’ll be thanks enough. Take care.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Right. I wonder where to start…
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Fine. Say your piece, but please make it quick. I have more pressing business.

MELANIE
Come on, I thought we were past that.

ARCHIVIST
Past what?

MELANIE
The attitude. I know I was kind of snotty when I first came in, but… come on, you were no better. I can admit I misjudged this place. Can you at least give me a chance?

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I’m sorry. I’m glad your opinion of us has changed.

MELANIE
My opinion of your Institute. I still think you’re a pompous ass.

ARCHIVIST
Well, this ‘pompous ass’ has some very urgent work to do, so if your statement is just going to be insults, you can go back to the damn library.

MELANIE
It’s not. Look, I… I think I’ve found something.

ARCHIVIST
About, what was it? Grey ladies?

MELANIE
No… well, sort of, I suppose… um, but that’s just it. Grey ladies are just the beginning. They’re the safe ones, I think. There are others.

ARCHIVIST
More ‘active’ ghosts?

MELANIE
Yes.

[SOUND OF CLOTH RUSTLING]
ARCHIVIST
Oh good lord. Are you okay?

MELANIE
Yes, it’s not as bad as it looks.

ARCHIVIST
What did that? When?

MELANIE
Just before I came in last time. And, er, best I can tell it was a 1940s surgical scalpel.

ARCHIVIST
A scalpel?

MELANIE
So, can I make my statement now?

ARCHIVIST
I think that might be for the best. Statement of Melanie King, regarding her further researches into…

MELANIE
I’m just calling them war ghosts.

ARCHIVIST
Recorded direct from subject, 13th February, 2017. Statement begins.

MELANIE
Ghost Hunt UK struggled after Aldershot. Sarah Baldwin disappeared. I spent a while trying to track her down but nothing led anywhere. I’m sure you found the same. The thing is, even though her peeling and stapling her own skin was the weirdest part of what I saw, it wasn’t what I got really hung up on. Fact is, there was a presence in that place. A genuine, unseen presence that physically attacked her. I’ve got no real reference point for who or what Sarah Baldwin might be, but I sure as hell know what a ghost is and how to look into one.

The others were dealing with their own stuff. We struggled through another year, but it wasn’t the same. Toni was the worst. She just got harder and harder to pin down for shoots, and then I struggled to reach her by phone or email. When she moved down to Bristol in March, she didn’t even tell me. I had to hear it from Pete; in the exact same call he said that he was thinking about leaving the team as well. I think that’s kind of why I came to you guys. I knew it was what happened at the CMH that was breaking us apart, but I couldn’t actually talk to them about it. Then Andy decided to take what he called “a bit of a holiday” from the show, and I wasn’t sure if he was coming back. If he did, I thought maybe we could find a new team and keep the show going. But he didn’t. As far as Ghost Hunt UK is concerned, he’s still on holiday, and it’s just me.

I actually went back to the Cambridge Military Hospital. It was being torn down, but I hopped the fence after dark and just waited. There was nothing. Just dust and rubble and silence. If I closed my eyes I could trick myself into thinking that the wind was some sort of howl of pain, but that’s all it was, really. The wind. So I started looking into similar buildings, military hospitals specifically, but anywhere with a reputation for being haunted and connected to historical conflicts.

It was then that I started noticing something about the paranormal investigator community. We all look in the same places. There’s a surprisingly small number of hauntings and cryptids that we all, sort of, swap between, repeating each other’s research and coming to similar conclusions. That’s why so many of us tend to go over to America. It’s so much bigger that there’s a lot more supposedly haunted locations on the circuit. Even then, it’s not as many as you think. I mean, we get plenty of tips from the public about other stuff - they don’t all come to see you, you know - but if they’re not reporting something that we’re already at least a bit familiar with, we tend to dismiss them out of hand. I used to assume this was to protect us from drunks and weirdos who ate the wrong kind of mushroom. I don’t think that’s it, though. I think it’s to protect us from the stuff that might be real. Make sure we only go looking after encounters that others have already confirmed as safe. I mean, I don’t know what it was about Sarah Baldwin that mixed so badly with the presence in the CMH, but that was the first I’d ever heard of a significant encounter there. Somewhere, somehow, the community had deemed it as not dangerous. Asbestos notwithstanding.

So the more I looked, the more I realised that there was this huge list of places that my colleagues steered completely clear of without even realising it, and a handful of stories to go with them. It wasn’t much, but it was a start. Even back then, I could feel all my old friends starting to distance themselves from me. Like they sensed I was crossing some unspoken line about what we were allowed to investigate. Everyone had a story about the friend who’d gone to the wrong place alone and disappeared or had quit the paranormal scene without explanation. I’d heard them all before, but now they weren’t just pub chatter spook stories, they were not-so-subtle warnings about straying from the path. I couldn’t go back, though. It was like once I had seen that there was a path to stray from, I couldn’t unsee it. And I couldn’t ignore the call from the woods all around. I stopped asking the others for help, and I kept my research to myself. I talked to them less and less. By the time I was arrested, I think a lot of them had already given up on me.

I’d been looking into a bunch of online stuff, the forums and the sites without the right sort of reputation for most of my lot. The sort of places with twenty made-up ghost stories for every one that might have some meat to it. After a while, you start to get a feel for the ones that are real or, at least, that the writer thinks are real. They tend to be the messy ones. The ones that don’t really have any sense or resolution, no narrative flow. Where there isn’t even a guess at an explanation, and often you end up just thinking, “Is that it?”

There was one, though, that caught my eye. It was some anonymous worker at the C.F. Booth scrap metal and recycling yard. If you haven’t heard of it, it’s in Rotherham, and it’s one of the biggest train graveyards in the UK.

The guy said he worked there scrapping train, but there was one metal rail car that had been there since he got the job, and it never seemed to be on the queue for recycling. He’d asked his supervisor, but they just shrugged and told him if it wasn’t queued it didn’t get scrapped, and he couldn’t get a straight answer out of anybody as to why it had just been sat there for years. He said it was old, like 1950s old, or even earlier maybe. More than that, he said that anytime he passed it while working late, he got a really strong, metallic odour that cut through all the other smells of the junkyard. He said he’d never been inside the carriage, but that it smelled like old blood.

The same post was on a couple of different forums, and each time told slightly differently. It wasn’t copy-pasted, and it seemed like the posts had been made over the course of a couple of years. There was nothing really to separate it from the hundreds of horror story liars that surrounded it, but it stuck with me. It kept playing on my mind, something about the way he had described the old rolling stock felt real to me. So I decided to check it out.

I have family up in Sheffield that I hadn’t seen in way too long, so I made arrangements to go and stay with them for a week. I figured it wouldn’t be too hard to head out and check the yard at night, since Rotherham’s only a few miles away. I was right about how easy it was to get there, but not about getting in. I always forget how big a target places like that are for thieves, and how hard they work to keep them out. High walls, sturdy gates and security guards all stood between me and this supposedly haunted train.

I should have turned back, really, but by then I was kind of obsessed with finding anything to reassure me that I hadn’t been seeing things back in Aldershot.

ARCHIVIST
I think I understand the feeling.

MELANIE
I’m sure you do.

I got over the wall on my third night of watching. I’d managed to figure out enough about how the cameras and security guards covered the place that I could take a full minute to get over quietly. The forum poster whose lead I was following hadn’t given much away about his own identity, but he had been very detailed in describing what I was looking for. An almost featureless steel boxcar, with a slightly curved roof, large windowless sliding door, and a few flecks of olive green paint still visible.

Even so, finding it was tricky. There was almost no light inside the yard except for the security lights that I was trying not to trip. I had brought a torch of course, but I was reluctant to turn it on in case I was spotted. After about ten minutes, I began to realise that my eyes weren’t actually going to be the best way to find it. Because there, on the wind, was the smell of blood. It was faint at first, but as I felt my way past old, discarded trains, it got stronger. My eyes had adjusted now, and I could see the rusted ancient skeletons of freight and passenger cars. They stood empty and still, silhouetted against that dull orange of a cloudy sky that glowed with light pollution. As I got closer I started to get jumpy, and I swear more than once I saw figures sat in the broken windows of those old trains. They were never there when I looked again.

Finally I saw it, the stark, angular shape clear even in the dark. It was far enough from the security stations that I finally dared to turn on my torch. The light hit the dull steel, casting long shadows into its crevices, and it somehow seemed heavier than it should have been. It was old, really old, but there was no rust on its edges. The smell of blood was almost choking.

I began to walk towards the large sliding door, but as I did so my torchlight caught on something tucked in the corner of the panelling. It seemed to be a serial number, stencilled in black paint. It was clear and legible, despite its age, and surrounded by patches of still-unpeeled green paint. The colour of made me think of the army. I took a few seconds to jot it down for checking later, then reached up and slid the large metal door to the side, shining my light inside.

At first it still seemed dark, and I couldn’t see much. My light hit the opposite wall, but it was the same featureless steel as the outside. Then my torch beam drifted downwards, and I caught sight of the thick red stream dripping from the now-open side of the car. The floor of the carriage was about chest height for me, and as I looked I could saw it was streaked with trails of blood that led down to the doorway. I traced my light up and along the shallow red stream and it hit what looked like an old metal hospital gurney. The fabric that covered it was that same military green as outside, and the body that lay on it was covered in a white cotton bag, stained black near the bottom. It wasn’t lying still, either, but it twitched and writhed as though in pain.

I wanted to run, but without warning a shape ran out of the darkness to my left. There was a glint of shining metal in its hand as it charged over to the twitching white body bag, and began to plunge the scalpel into it again and again and again. It looked like a man. He was maybe mid-twenties, dressed in army fatigues and wearing a white armband with a red cross on it. His eyes, though, they… they weren’t human. I mean, they were, but everything in them that makes us people was gone. The only thing in those eyes was violence. Carnage.

ARCHIVIST
Blood.

MELANIE
Yeah… blood. I was so fixed on those eyes I didn’t even notice him run at me. I was only when I felt the scalpel slice into my shoulder that I realised what was happening and thought to scream. Next thing I knew, I was being carried away by security guards. They were shouting at me, while I ranted at them about blood and ghosts. I only had a chance to look back at the carriage once. It was too dark inside to be sure, but I… I think it was empty.

They couldn’t decide whether to call the police or the ambulance, so split the difference and called both. The cut was nasty, but not deep enough to do any real damage; as you saw, I’m getting quite a scar from it. Still, it meant that even though I was technically arrested, I got to go in the ambulance rather than the police car. The guys from the scrapyard told them I’d cut myself in the dark on a sharp piece of metal. I started screaming at them, trying to tell them what actually happened. That must have been when that dog-walker, or whoever the hell it was, started filming. I was actually a meme for a day or two.

You do know what that is, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I know what a meme is. You were saying?

MELANIE
Well, that’s it, really. After I recovered they dropped the charges, and I came to you, looking to use your library. You see, I still had the serial number, and I looked up the carriage afterwards. It was from World War II. The 11th US Army Hospital train, operating in the European theatre from August 1944. The train crew was actually commended for their service.

ARCHIVIST
But…?

MELANIE
It crashed in April 1945. Derailed, killed 5 crew and seriously injured 14 more. There weren’t any patients on board at the time. At least, not officially. There was only one steel train car that avoided derailment.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

MELANIE
Exactly. There’s not a lot more information on it, though, and I’ve no idea how it ended up in Rotherham. So I came here to dig a bit deeper.

ARCHIVIST
Really? Our… our library is extensive, but it’s hardly focused on the Second World War.

MELANIE
No, but the most detailed description of the crash that I could find came from the report of a man called William W. Hay. And later in life William Hay…

ARCHIVIST
Became a noted occultist, whose memoirs and researches were only ever published in a heavily edited form. And we have unexpurgated copies.

MELANIE
Exactly.

ARCHIVIST
Did you find anything?

MELANIE
Plenty. He served on the 11th Hospital Train as engineer, and there was a lot he had to say about it. They even let me make a photocopy.

ARCHIVIST (READING)
On the subject of savagery, I have myself seen the long-term effects upon the psyche of witnessing the violence men may inflict upon one another. A dulling of the senses is merely the first step, though one that few progress beyond. In more acute cases, there comes a strange mania, a fascination with the mechanisms of this violence, the tactility of injury and the sensations that accompany it. The smell of blood especially appears to incite in a certain sort of mind, numbed by the horrors of war, the urge commit unspeakable violence. I saw it once in the eyes of a young medic near Merey, a thing so grotesque that I have some sympathy with those who decided to crash, rather than risk his rampage. But even that pales to insignificance compared to what I saw in the infirmary at Amritsar. Two dozen Ghurkhas tearing each other to pieces, consumed by the terrible butchery they had inflicted. Such things are not to be dwelt on, but serve to illustrate my proposition that violence, inflicted, received or even just witnessed, can not only deal injury to the body or the mind, but to the soul itself.

ARCHIVIST
I see. So does this mean…?

MELANIE
Yes. And I’ve got my plane to India already booked.

ARCHIVIST
Even after your experience with the hospital train? It sounds like this could be far more dangerous…

MELANIE
Oh thank you but I don’t need your fake concern.

I’ve heard them talking upstairs. You know this obsession even better than I do. I just wanted to make my statement…

ARCHIVIST
In case you get murdered by ghosts.

MELANIE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
I understand. Thank you, Melanie.

MELANIE
Sure. Where’s Sasha, by the way? I wanted to say goodbye.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry?

MELANIE
Sasha. Your assistant. I haven’t seen her in a while.

You didn’t fire her, did you?

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure I understand, she brought you down here.

MELANIE
Oh… No, is that another Sasha? Are you collecting them?

ARCHIVIST
No, no, there’s just… there’s just Sasha.

MELANIE
You know who I mean. Tall, long hair, glasses… She was here when I first came in. Back last April? We had a long conversation about haunted pubs.

ARCHIVIST
No, I… I remember. But that is Sasha.

MELANIE
Right, okay, um… are you trying to gaslight me or something?

ARCHIVIST
What? No!

MELANIE
Is this a joke to you?

ARCHIVIST
No! No… I… I…

MELANIE
Because I am not crazy. And that is not the same woman I met before!

ARCHIVIST
Yes it is! I mean… What?

MELANIE
There is something very wrong with you.

ARCHIVIST
No… what?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
I… um… I haven’t followed up on Melanie’s statement. I just keep thinking about what she said about Sasha. She was so certain. I mean, it’s Sasha. Obviously it’s Sasha. But… something… There’s more than one thing in the files that can trick you. I can’t just ignore it. So many stories about things that aren’t as they appear to be. Why Melanie, though? If… Why…

It doesn’t matter. I need to do more research. When Melanie came in, I was looking through the box of tapes Basira gave me, trying to decide where to start. Now I think… I think I have an idea.

End supplemental.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
GERTRUDE
Case 9941509 - Lucy Cooper. Incident occurred in Draycott, Somerset, August 1994. Victim’s name given as Rose Cooper. Statement given 15th of September 1994. Committed to tape 4th of November 1996. Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
There is a stranger claiming to be my mother. I don’t know who she is. Everyone else says that she’s my mother, and gives me looks of alarm when I tell them she’s an impostor. I don’t know what to do.

My mother and I have always had our differences. To be honest, it’s only been in the last five years or so that we really began speaking again. She was always a strong-willed woman, never one to blunt her opinions, and throughout my childhood it gradually got worse. Nothing I ever did was quite good enough, and any hint of pride I might have taken in myself or my achievements was always undercut by some cutting little critique.

Even on those rare occasions that I succeeded at something highly enough to actually warrant her praise, it was always appended with doubt. I remember when I was fifteen I came first in an inter-school athletics competition. I was two seconds ahead in the hundred metre sprint, and all she could say was, “Make sure being the best runner doesn’t distract you from your exams”.

It didn’t really come to a head until I got engaged to Laurence, though. We’d been dating on and off through university, and I’d sat through enough awkward family dinners to know that my mother didn’t like him, but her disapproval was nothing new, so I ignored it. When he proposed to me after our graduation, I’d assumed she would simply tolerate it as she had every other one of my decisions.

I was wrong. When I told her, she got angry. Not the chill, disapproving anger I was used to from, but a genuine shouting rage. She accused me of throwing my life away, told me I’d regret it, and that Laurence was good-for-nothing scum who’d drag me down and stop me achieving anything. I answered her in kind, and the argument that we had that night was the last time I saw her for almost ten years. I’d try to convince myself that our differences were just that: we were simply two very different people. But sometimes I worry that the reason we could never get on was that we were far too much alike.

For instance, we were both far too stubborn for our own good. Maybe that’s why I stayed with Laurence through two affairs, as if accepting that I’d made a mistake would be letting her win. In the end I only left him when he was jailed for embezzlement, eight years into our marriage. Even then, I didn’t want to speak to her. Didn’t want to tell her she’d been right. It wasn’t until my father had his accident that I finally decided to try and make amends.

My father is a gentle man. To this day I couldn’t really tell you anything about his thoughts or opinions on anything, as they were invariably bulldozed by my mother. He was a benign, ineffectual presence, always in the shadow. For all that, I did love him; so when he fell from a ladder and ended up in wheelchair, I made the decision to try and reconnect with my parents.

It wasn’t easy. Beyond the greying of her hair, my mother hadn’t changed, and the reconciliation I’d hoped for never really came. I spent my visits biting my tongue, or getting into vicious fights whenever I wasn’t able to. But I could always see on my father’s face how much he liked to see me, how happy he was to have our small family together again, so I persevered. I think she saw it too, to be honest, and whenever he wheeled himself painfully into the room, she would try her best not to antagonise me. After a while we came to an uneasy peace.

There were practical issues as well. They’d retired to the small village of Draycott in the Somerset countryside, and as I lived in London and didn’t have a car, it was two trains and a long bus ride anytime I wanted to see them. But I made the effort.

I even conceived a reason to go more often - I’ve been doing some freelance work this summer for the British Library, recording and compiling oral histories on various topics, and it so happened that during her time as an academic, my mother had been something of an authority on English and Welsh folklore. In fact, one of the reasons she always gave for retiring out there was how many myths and legends made their home in the area.

So I proposed that I make some recordings of her, telling and discussing them for the project. She agreed, though not before telling me how pointless the whole thing sounded, and over the last few months I saw them several times. My father was happy, the recordings I got were surprisingly usable, and everything seemed to be getting better.

Two weeks ago I went to see them, and someone else opened the door. Someone I didn’t recognise. She wore my mother’s clothes, but they shouldn’t have fitted her. My mother is tall, rail thin and always keeps her hair cut short, but the woman who answered my knocking was shorter, rounded about the middle and wore her curly white hair down almost to her shoulders. I had definitely never seen her before.

I asked if my parents were home, and she laughed. It was a soft, joyful sound that was so unlike anything I expected to hear in that house that I had to take a step back to collect my thoughts. My father wheeled round the corner and shouted a greeting as though everything was perfectly normal. He moved up beside the plump old woman standing in the doorway and looked at me, smiling. The image made me feel queasy. I’m not even sure why, at this point I had no reason to think this person was anything other than a friend of my parents, but something wasn’t right.

I asked where my mother was, and they both got very quiet. I repeated the question with more force, and my father looked up to this strange woman in confusion. She smiled sadly and stepped towards me, opening her arms as if to hug me, but I yelled at her to get back, demanding to see my mother. My father’s face grew dark, and he told me that my joke wasn’t funny. With the most force I’d ever heard from him, he told me that however angry I was, this wasn’t the right way to deal with it. I looked back at this woman, standing there with open arms, and she smiled at me.

“Come, give your mother a hug,” she said.

The hour or two after that are a bit of a blur. I have vague memories of being numbly taken through into the living room, sat on the sofa and handed a cup of tea. I tried to drink it as they talked on at me, but it was ice cold, so I must have been sitting there a long time. I nodded once or twice, I think. My dad clearly thought I was having some sort of breakdown, and was just talking about whatever came into his head in the hopes of calming me down. The woman who was not my mother just talked cheerily, as though there was nothing at all amiss.

She had a kind voice, and her words were warm and friendly. She was nothing like my mother, and I was very quickly becoming deeply afraid. Had she done something to my real mother, and somehow convinced my father she was her? It seemed a ridiculous thought. My father may have been disabled but his mind was still sharp, and he’d never showed any signs of the sort of dementia that would let a stranger pose as his wife. Was he her prisoner? Maybe, but he didn’t seem to be acting as though anything was wrong, and if that was the case why bother trying to convince me of so obvious a lie?

I excused myself, and moved quickly out towards the back garden. Neither of them made a move to stop me. I saw a phone near the back porch and grabbed it, intending to call the police, when something caught my eye. It was a series of photographs on the wall, showing our family in happier times. It had been there for as long as I’d been to the house, and likely a lot longer. I had spent a long time staring at it my first visit there, lost in pleasant nostalgia, remembering days at the beach or the trip we took to Hanover when I was eight.

But now, in every one of them there stood this new woman where my mother should have been. She looked younger in these pictures, just like my father, and across the dozen pictures on the wall I could see a timeline of this woman growing old alongside him. There was no way these photos could have been staged, and I could even see a small crease on the bottom corner of the Hanover picture. I remembered I’d sat on the pictures by accident on the journey home, bending the corner out of place. I’d got a nasty talking to after that, and certainly not from the kindly fraud currently putting the kettle on in the kitchen.

It didn’t make any sense. It still doesn’t make any sense. After dinner I insisted that we get out the photo albums, spouting some nonsense about catching up on memories. My father and the woman who was not my mother agreed readily enough, and so out came the albums and I began to look through them. I must have looked at well over five hundred photographs that evening, and not a single one was out of place or failed to feature this stranger where my mother should have been.

As my turning of the pages became more and more frantic, I spotted a look on the face of this new mother. It was amused, almost mocking, and I became sure that she knew. Whoever this woman that called herself Rose Cooper was, she knew it was a lie as much as I did, and my confusion and fear delighted her.

For all that, though, I was at a complete loss to explain any of it. Every piece of photographic evidence I can find supported this woman’s claim to be my mother. My father’s memories agreed, as did the memories of the two neighbours I was able to talk to the following day - Tom Harrison and Joanne Fisher. Both of them told me that they’d known George and Rose Cooper since they’d moved in, and when I asked them to describe Rose, they said she was medium height with a kind, round face and long, curly white hair.

I even took a walk up to the Church of St. Peter’s, where I knew my mother occasionally visited, to ask the vicar, a polite man named Neil Angus. He told me the same thing as the others, though he did ask after my mother’s health. Apparently she’d had a bit of a fall the week before outside the church, and the vicar had come out to help after hearing her cry out. He turned a bit pale when he said this. I pressed him further, and he told me that, although she’d seemed fine when he had reached her, the scream was like nothing he’d ever heard.

I asked the woman who is not my mother about her ‘fall’ near the church. She looked me right in the eyes, smiled, and said it was nothing. She’d just had a “bit of a funny turn”.

That’s it, really. I left immediately and haven’t been back. I’ve never been a believer in the supernatural before, but it seems clear to me that something attacked my mother near St. Peter’s church, killed her and somehow replaced her completely. The only piece of evidence I can find is the recordings I’d made of her beforehand. The tapes still have her real voice on. I have a few, so you can have one for whatever tests you might want to do. I’m going to go back to my father and play him the others. Maybe it’ll jog a memory, or maybe he’ll try to have me put away. Either way, I have to try.

I used to think I hated my mother; I really did. But now I can’t stop listening to those tapes, now I know they’re the only way I’ll ever hear her voice again. All of them except the tape we recorded on the old myths of the fae, of changelings. I’m not ready to listen to that one yet.

GERTRUDE
Final comments: Unfortunately for Ms. Cooper’s attempts to convince her father, it appears George Cooper died of carbon monoxide poisoning from a gas leak two days after this statement was recorded, before her next visit. No other bodies were found, and there has been no sign of anyone identifying themselves as Rose Cooper since.

Based on the interactions and effects, I suspect this to be the creature that Adelard Dekker refers to as the “NotThem” in statement 9910607. If the pattern of behaviour is consistent with what he establishes, then further follow-up on this case is pointless: the thing has finished with the Cooper family, and will not be revisiting them. It rarely seems to stay in the same place or with the same people for long, though it’s hard to guess at its motives. Personally, I suspect it to be an aspect of The Stranger, though that’s entirely conjecture at this point.

What puzzles me more is why one or two people can always see through it. The sheer power that it must be able to call upon to be able to rewrite so much of reality, seemingly as a reflex, is staggering. So why does it always miss a few witnesses?

It is at least reassuring to know that magnetic tape seems to escape being overwritten, so if I get changed, you can be sure this is my real voice. Based on Dekker’s statement, it would seem Polaroids are also relatively stable. Beyond that, I find it comforting that this creature appears content to travel freely sowing random terror. I dread to think the damage it could inflict if it had a purpose.

I have destroyed the tape Ms. Cooper provided us as a precaution - I have no interest in attracting this thing’s attention.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
I found this tape while rifling through the boxes Basira provided me. It was labelled “Changeling / Imposter,” and given Melanie’s outburst last week, I thought it a prudent place to start listening. It is, uh…

The tapes that went missing after the Prentiss attack all had Sasha’s voice on them. I hadn’t put it together until listening to this. I don’t know what this… I know exactly what this means. But I don’t know what to do about it. I can’t tell the others. Even if I could get them to believe me, they’d find out about Gertrude’s tapes. I can’t risk that. I need to deal with this myself. And that means I need more information on this thing. How it works. How it k…

I need to know how to stop it. I’m going to start by tracking down the statement by this “Adelard Dekker”. I… I think the statements from the Nineties are marginally more organised now. If it’s here, if Sasha… I’m going to find out how to kill it.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
I… er…

We… we didn’t…

Statement of Lawrence Moore. Regarding something that was not his cousin. Original statement given June 12th, 2001. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I used to have a cousin. His name was Carl. We weren’t close. I saw him plenty growing up - his family lived in Peterborough and mine lived in Leicester, so it wasn’t too far. We’d go over occasionally, or we’d all be left together at our grandmothers if our parents were doing something together. They never came over to our house, though; at least I don’t remember them doing so. My memories of childhood are a bit hazy, so I can’t be completely sure. Putting it down on paper now, though, I realise that, given how close we lived, it’s odd that we didn’t see each other more. I wonder how well our parents really got on. Thinking about it, I suppose they never had much in common.

Either way we got on fine, me and Carl. I think. I was a few years younger than him, and when you’re a kid that makes a lot of difference. I suspect he saw me as a bit of an annoyance, a bit of a tag-along, but I don’t remember us ever getting into fights or anything like that. We’d spend most of the time exploring my grandmother’s wide country garden, or sitting awkwardly together pretending to do something while our parents talked about whatever grown-up topics needed their attention.

Since I grew up and moved out, though, I hardly ever saw Carl. A family dinner at Christmas some years or the occasional big family birthday, but if you totalled up all the hours we spent together since I turned eighteen, I doubt we’d be very far into double digits. And if you only count the time we’d actually spent talking to each other… I’m not sure you could even piece together a full hour.

It didn’t really bother me, and it certainly didn’t bother him. I remember, shortly after I moved down to London I actually bumped into him shopping in Covent Garden. Turned out he lived about twenty minutes bus ride from me. I half-heartedly suggested we should go for a drink or hang out or something. And he said, “Yeah”, in a flat tone that told me he had absolutely no interest whatsoever in doing so.

I wonder if I ever did anything as a child to set him against me? Or in that tiny sliver of time we actually interacted as adults. It’s weird to think about people who knew you as a child. You change so much, and when you talk to them again, they’re not talking to you. They’re talking to someone else, someone you used to be. The person they think they’re seeing has been dead for years, but they didn’t see the change. They’re looking at a complete stranger, and they have no idea.

I went to my brother’s wedding recently, and there was something pretending to be my cousin Carl. Adam, my brother, had always gotten along slightly better with him than I had, being closer in age, and during the ceremony I had been surprised not to see Carl among the guests. It was only later, at the reception, when I was being introduced to a number of my brother’s friends I’d never met before, that I offered my hand to a dark-haired stranger and asked his name. He looked at me for a long, off-putting second as a wide smile crept across his face. “I know it’s been a long time, Lawrence,” he said, “but surely you haven’t forgotten your cousin Carl?”

What are you supposed to say to that? I just sort of stammered and wandered off. I didn’t realise exactly what was happening until I asked my brother who the stranger was, and he gave me a puzzled look and told me, yes, that was Carl, my cousin. I assumed he must be playing some sort of joke, but the whole thing had really kind of unsettled me, so I asked my father, and he said the same thing. Now, my father is not somebody who jokes. He’s never been one for humour and I can count on one hand the number of times I’ve ever heard him properly laugh. There was no way he would play along in any sort of prank Adam might try to arrange. I looked over, and the person who claimed to be my cousin was staring at me, smiling wide enough to show off rows of yellow-stained teeth.

I could feel panic beginning to rise in my chest, and I started asking everyone who might know Carl, and all of them told me the same thing. When my aunt gave me a withering glare for asking who her son was, I had to leave. I just walked out of the hall, got in my car and drove back to London. I don’t drink, so it definitely wasn’t that. I thought maybe I was having some sort of dissociative episode. That must have been it. I’d been under a lot of stress at work, and my own marriage had recently ended, so perhaps that had affected me more than I thought. Maybe it had done something to my memory. I even managed to half-convince myself that if I was having a nervous breakdown and all that meant was I misremembered a cousin I never see, I’d gotten off quite lightly.

But I couldn’t let it go. It nagged at me. As I lay awake in my too-empty bed, it twisted in my mind. I wasn’t just remembering Carl wrong. I did not know the person who was using his name. It wasn’t Carl. It just wasn’t.

I was signed off work at the time, and mostly spent my days just kicking around the house, but a about a week after the wedding it occurred to me that, when my grandmother passed away a few years before, my parents had asked me to go through her old photos, see which ones we might like to keep. I’d taken them, but had never actually gotten around to going through them, and they should still be in the loft. Not having anything better to do, and still a little bit off-balance after Adam’s wedding, I pulled down the ladder, and went to fetch them.

The attic space was warm and dry, with that thin film of dust in the air that isn’t quite enough to set you coughing but leaves your mouth feeling dry and sticky. I pushed away a few plastic crates of old comics, until I found the brittle cardboard box that held the pictures. My grandmother had loved her camera, and I remember her shelves were always full of tiny canisters of film, but it wasn’t until I started to look through them that I realised quite how many pictures she’d actually taken.

There were hundreds, maybe thousands, in there, and going through them I watched myself grow from a squash-faced toddler to a chubby little boy and a spotty, scowling teenager. And alongside me was my brother Adam, and another child, who I did not recognise, but whose dark hair seemed to match the man I had met at the wedding.

By the end, my whole body was shaking. Not because of all those pictures of a strange child playing in the garden with us, but because of the two - only two - pictures I found of Carl. The Carl I remembered, with light brown hair cut short and an almost piggish nose. The second of those photos looked like it had only been taken moments after a different picture of us playing tag, but that one showed the other child where Carl should have been. Where I knew he had been. I stared at those photographs for what must have been an hour or more, completely unable to make any sense of what I was looking at.

At some point, I was roused by a knock on the front door. It wasn’t hard, or impatient, just a light series of taps. As though whoever was on the other side had no doubt that was in, and was politely trying to attract my attention. I put the pictures back quickly, and hurried down to answer it.

Standing on the other side was my new cousin Carl. He smiled that same yellow smile, and said that he’d been sad to see me leave Adam’s wedding so soon, and that since we lived so close together, it seemed rude not to drop by. I tried to tell him to leave, to demand to know where Carl was, but my heart was beating so fast and I was just too scared. He walked calmly past me, into the house, and I closed the door behind him.

What followed was the longest afternoon of my life. I sat in an armchair and he took the sofa opposite, sitting stiffly in a way that seemed far too still. Neither of us said a word. He just stared at me, smile still wide and something twinkling in his eyes that might have been amusement. Or triumph. He showed no desire to make any sort of conversation, and I was too terrified to say anything at all.

I just kept thinking, what had this man done to Carl, and could he do it to me? I tried to look at him, to really look, but the more I attempted to focus on him properly, the more my eyes seemed to slide off him. Like one of those optical illusions that only comes into focus when you’re looking at a different part of the picture.

At one point, it almost seemed like his neck was too long, but when I looked again it was normal. The only two things I knew for sure was that I had never been as scared as I was just then, and that I did not know this man.

When evening finally came, he stood up. He nodded at me and told me how much he had enjoyed his visit. “We must do this again,” he said, “and soon.” Then he left. I stayed sat in that chair and I cried.

It was full dark when I was broken out of my despair by another knock on the door. This one was harsh and jarring, and I could hear the doorframe rattle slightly at the impact. Standing there was another man I’d never seen before. He was black, dressed in a crisp white shirt with the sleeves rolled up, and a thin necktie.

For a moment, I had the idea he might be a Jehovah’s Witness, but one look at his face dispelled that idea immediately. It was hard and stern, set in look of determination, and his short hair was iron grey. He was very thin, with aging skin stretched tight over wiry, corded muscle, and though he was slightly shorter than I was, it seemed like he towered over me. He asked if I knew the man who had left my house earlier that evening.

I laughed at that; a harsh laugh that surprised even me. I said I did not know him, no matter how many pictures might tell me I did. At this, the old man’s eyes lit up with excitement, and I took an involuntary step back. If he noticed, he didn’t show it, walking past me into the house and ordering me to get any photos that hadn’t changed. I don’t know if it was the certainty in his voice or my own feeling of helplessness, but it didn’t even occur to me not to do what he said.

I returned from the loft with the box of photographs to find him sat on the sofa, exactly where my impostor cousin had sat not two hours before, and I finally got up the courage to ask him who he was. He told me his name was Adelard Dekker, and that he was an exorcist, of sorts. I asked him if he thought my cousin was somehow possessed, but he was already looking through the box, and ignored me. He pulled out the same two photographs I had found, the ones that hadn’t changed, and his mouth twisted into a wry smile.

He told me to follow him, and I did. We walked over to an unmarked blue Transit van parked on the other side of the road, and he opened the back doors. Inside was a large wooden box with a hinged lid.

The man who called himself Adelard Dekker climbed in and picked up the back of it, commanding me to take the other end. I did, and together we carried it into my house. It was heavy and barely fit through the front door, but any objections I might have had were silenced by one look from Dekker. We placed it down in the middle of the living room, and I instinctively went to lift the lid. I caught a brief glimpse of dark, varnished wood before he slammed it down, almost trapping my hand, and shook his head once. “It’s not for you,” he said.

Then he instructed me to go to my bedroom, and not to leave until he told me it was safe. I did protest at that, and I asked him how my locking myself upstairs would help save Carl. There was no sympathy in his voice when he told me my cousin was dead, that nothing would bring him back, and that my best chance to not join him was to stay in the bedroom until everything was over. He did not seem inclined to tell me what he meant by “everything”.

So I did what he said. I suppose I could have called the police, but this strange, old man spoke with such certainty that I felt like following his instructions was the only hope I had. I lay in my bed and I tried to sleep. I did, though not well. The image of this new Carl kept intruding in my dreams and jolting me awake. The sun came up, and there was no word from Dekker, so I stayed there, waiting for something to happen, though I had no idea what. I lay in bed all morning and then into the afternoon.

Finally, at about three o’clock, I heard the soft knock at the door. It was the exact same knock at the exact same time, and I felt my body seize up with fear. There was the sound of the door opening, but nothing else. I just lay there, straining my ears to hear any sound. The air grew close and heavy, like a thunderstorm about to break, but still I heard nothing. Ten minutes passed. Then an hour. And then the air was split by the most unnatural scream I have ever heard. I cannot even begin to describe it, except to say that there was nothing in it but the purest rage.

Panic surged through me. I had to get out of that house. I threw open the bedroom door and charged down the stairs towards the front. And as I did so, I passed by the living room, and I instinctively turned my head to see inside.

Adelard Dekker stood in the corner. He was straight and motionless, his lips moving rapidly, though no sound came out of them. In the centre of the room, next to the empty box, stood a table carved from dark wood and wrapped all over with a sprawling, intricate pattern. And in front of that table was the thing that had said it was my cousin. It was long and thin, the tops of it bent against the ceiling and its stick-like limbs flailed from too many joints and elbows. Wrapped around it were thick strands of what I think was spider’s web, stretching back into the table, which I now saw pulsed along its carved channels with a sickly light. The face at the top of that gangly frame was like nothing on earth.

That was all I saw, because the second after I had taken it in, I was out of the door and down the street, running as fast as I could away from that house. I kept running until I collapsed, and lay there on the street until a passer-by asked if I needed help.

I didn’t return to my house until the next morning. Dekker’s blue van was gone, and in its place was another one, dirty white. There was something printed on the side, but I couldn’t make it out under the grime. I watched two men in overalls carry that same box out of my house, load it up, and drive away. That was about two months ago, and it was the last time I saw them, the table, Adelard Dekker, or the thing that wasn’t my cousin.

My aunt and uncle have reported Carl missing. The police did come round and asked me if I knew anything but I told them nothing. I just said we weren’t very close.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

I found this in the folder marked 9910602, where Gertrude’s tape had indicated I would find the statement of Dekker himself. There is nothing else in there, but I think it tells me what I need to know. This thing, this “Not Sasha”, it’s tied to the table. It…

I found the tapes.

[TAPE NOISES]
SASHA (RECORDING)
I thought it was pronounced “Kah-lee-o-pee?

ARCHIVIST
They were in her desk. Well hidden, but… If I’d been a bit more thorough, if I…

[TAPE NOISES]
SASHA (RECORDING)
It’s just a scratch, Jon. I’ll be fine. Can we begin?

ARCHIVIST
Was there anything I could have done? Could I have…

[TAPE NOISES]
SASHA (RECORDING)
Hello? I see you. Show yourself.

[TAPE NOISES]
NOT!SASHA (RECORDING)
Hello?

[TAPE NOISES]
I see you.

[TAPE NOISES]
I see you.

ARCHIVIST
And now I see you.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
You wanted to see us.

MARTIN
Are you ok? You look awful.

ARCHIVIST
I’m… I’m coming down with something, I think.

Listen, you should take the rest of the day off.

Tomorrow as well.

MARTIN
Are you sure you-

ARCHIVIST
Don’t want to infect anyone else. Best you stay home.

TIM
Wouldn’t it make more sense if you went home, then?

MARTIN
Are you feverish? We should probably get you to a doctor. Look, there’s a walk-in centre nearby I can-

ARCHIVIST
No. No, I have things I still need to take care of here.

And, besides, I know you’ve both been under a lot of… pressure lately. I think we could all do with a bit of break.

MARTIN
Well… well, yeah but…

ARCHIVIST
I know, I know, a lot of it’s been because of me. Most of it. I’m sorry. Tim, I know things have been…

fraught.

TIM
I guess that’s a word for it.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well, I think some time off could only help.

TIM
Because you’re ill.

ARCHIVIST
Yes…. Yes. And I’m… I’m sorry. About everything.

MARTIN
J-John… look, are you-

TIM
Ok. Right you are, John. We’ll be going.

MARTIN
Wait, what?

TIM
Come on, Martin. We could do with a break. Er… do you need us to tell Sasha?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, no, no. I’ll be seeing her later.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Tim… Wait…

TIM
Great. See you Monday.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
No, no…

ARCHIVIST
Yes, see you then.

MARTIN
Hang on, Tim we should probably-

[DOOR CLOSES]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
[Whispered] It is remarkably easy to buy an axe in Central London. Harder to sneak it into Artefact Storage, but not impossible. I don’t know if destroying this is going to kill that thing… but I am damn sure it’s going to hurt.

[NOISE OF AXE HITTING & SPLINTERING WOOD AND THE GRUNTS OF THE ARCHIVIST AS A STRANGE MUSIC BEGINS TO BUILD AND INTENSIFY]
[SOUND OF SHATTERING WOOD AND THE STRANGE MUSIC DISAPPEARS]
Hollow. Just cobwebs and dust.

[FAMILIAR EERIE LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL
That was very stupid.

ARCHIVIST
What do you want?

MICHAEL
There’s no other way out of this room, you know.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MICHAEL
You don’t have time to escape before they get here.

ARCHIVIST
The… the… the “Not Sasha”? No, but the table…

MICHAEL
Was binding it quite effectively.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh no.

MICHAEL
Even with all the protections you have on, I doubt you can survive them now.

[IN THE BACKGROUND, THE ARCHIVIST IS WORRIEDLY MUTTERING ‘NO’ OVER AND OVER]
NOT!SASHA
[Heavily distorted, distant] Jooooohhhnnnn….

ARCHIVIST
Er… I…

[SOUND OF A CREAKY DOOR OPENING]
MICHAEL
You. Need. A door.

ARCHIVIST
NO. No, I… I just… I need…

[DISTORTED VOICE FROM THE NOT!SASHA CALLING OUT HIS NAME AGAIN]
ARCHIVIST
Shit!

[MICHAEL LAUGHS AND LAUGHS]
[STRANGE SOUND ALMOST LIKE SOMETHING ROARING OPEN AS MICHAEL’S LAUGH ECHOES]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
MARTIN
Streets. By Martin K. Blackwood.

The streets are hard in London.

Paved in old secrets, the hot smell after the rains.

The threads of people walking, living, lovi -

[CLICK]
[FOOTSTEPS]
MARTIN
You’re sure about this? He did tell us to go home…

TIM
Yeah, and then he said, “Sorry for everything”. Something’s up.

MARTIN
You don’t think he’s going to… y’know…

TIM
I don’t know. But he’s going to do something, and it’s going to be bad. And I don’t mean like ‘sneaking a cigarette’ bad. Like properly bad.

MARTIN
So we need to help him?

TIM
We need to stop him.

MARTIN
And… we needed my tape recorder because…

TIM
Because something tells me we’re going to need evidence by the end of today. I don’t want to wind up in court without something to back me up.

MARTIN
Court?

TIM
Yeah. Er, tribunal if we’re lucky, inquest if we’re not.

MARTIN
You did use a new tape, didn’t you?

TIM
Yeah, I took one off the pile.

MARTIN
Was it blank or… Tim?

TIM
It was blank.

MARTIN
He’s never going to speak to us again.

TIM
Don’t get my hopes up.

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
John?

TIM
Aaaaaand he’s gone. Thought so.

MARTIN
You don’t think he’s going to…

TIM
I don’t know, Martin! I think he’s going fully off the deep end, is what I think. If he hasn’t already.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[FOOTSTEPS]
MARTIN
Look, I know you don’t like him…

TIM
Got that, did you?

MARTIN
But I’m not going to help you get him fired.

TIM
Martin! What do you think is happening here? This isn’t office politics. It’s not like he’s had one too many at the Christmas party and started ranting about the Greeks. Whatever is happening here it’s literally supernatural.

MARTIN
Really? Isn’t that a little… y’know?

TIM
No, it isn’t “a little y’know”. There is something in this place, and it’s messing up our heads. It watches us all the time. It stops me quitting. I’m pretty sure it would stop Elias firing Jon even if he decided to try actually running the place for once.

MARTIN
You’re sure you don’t just want to stay?

TIM
I’m sure.

MARTIN
But, like, deep down -

TIM
No.

MARTIN
Oh.

…

So you really think the Institute is, what, haunted?

TIM
I used to. Now I think it’s worse.

MARTIN
Worse how?

[CRASH OF DOOR BREAKING]
NOT!SASHA
[Heavily distorted] Jooooohhhn!

[SOUNDS OF TIM & MARTIN BEING SURPRISED]
TIM
Oh god! What the hell was that?!

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Oh no nonononono!

[A ROAR, SOUNDS OF FRANTIC BREATHING, RUNNING FOOTSTEPS AND SCUTTLING MOVEMENT]
[TRAPDOOR OPENS]
[RAPID, SINISTER SCUTTLING MOVEMENT RECEDES]
[SILENCE, AS TIM AND MARTIN TRY TO REGAIN THEIR BREATH]
TIM
What the hell was that?

MARTIN
It… er… It looked… It kinda looked…

TIM
Oh don’t say it.

MARTIN
It did, though, didn’t it?

TIM
That wasn’t Sasha.

MARTIN
No. No, no, it wasn’t.

You don’t… you don’t think -

TIM
He told her to go home. Like us!

MARTIN
Yeah.

TIM
And she did.

MARTIN
Yeah.

…

It went into the tunnels.

TIM
Nope. No. Not happening.

MARTIN
We can’t just leave him.

TIM
Yeah, we can.

MARTIN
I’m going.

[FOOTSTEPS]
TIM
Martin!

Mar… I’m not coming down there with…

Damn it. Fine.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Damn. Damn damn damn damn DAMN!

[HAND SLAPS STONE]
I… I took Michael’s door. It was that or face Sa… the thing that was pretending to be Sasha. It opened into the tunnels. The tunnels. Not exactly the escape I was hoping for. I’m hardly surprised, must be its idea of a joke. Still, it is… it is a head start I suppose. I have no idea where in the tunnels I am. Or how far down.

At least it didn’t leave me trapped in some corridor hellmaze… a different corridor hellmaze, at least.

So I suppose I just… I just wait for now. I don’t think it’s going to just give up, and I can’t risk attracting its attention. It might already be down here with me. Just stay quiet.

Stay hidden.

…

God, I’m an idiot. Smash the table, kill the monster, stupid! Lazy, sloppy assumption. Of course the table was binding it. The table is webs and spiders. Spiders are something else. They don’t help each other, they oppose, they… they weaken. It was caught in a web, and I… All the pieces were there. And I just… I couldn’t see it.

…

I don’t know how much tape I have left. I’m going to stop recording. To conserve it. If -

NOT!SASHA
[DISTANT] Jooooohhhnnnn…

ARCHIVIST
Oh Christ.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
What now? We need to hurry.

TIM
Shhh!

…

I thought I heard something up ahead.

MARTIN
I didn’t hear anything. Why, do you think it was the Sasha-thing?

TIM
Will you shut up about that. It wasn’t anything like her.

MARTIN
No, I know, but I mean… like, if you really stretched her out…

TIM
We’re never going to find him down here.

MARTIN
So go get some help.

TIM
Er… Elias is probably still in his office.

MARTIN
I thought you said he was a waste of a suit.

TIM
Yeah, well he’s better than nothing.

MARTIN
If you want to go, I understand.

TIM
I… I’m not just going to leave you down here.

MARTIN
You were all about quitting.

TIM
Oh, for God’s sake, this isn’t about you.

MARTIN
It never is.

TIM
Alright, fine. Fine. What do you want? What’s your light at the end of these spooky damn tunnels? And don’t say ‘everyone happy forever’, because that’s not happening.

…

Well?

MARTIN
I don’t know. I don’t know! I want to find out what’s going on. I want to save John. I want everyone to be fine and, you know what? If we were all happy that wouldn’t actually be the end of the world.

TIM
Fine.

MARTIN
No, no it’s not “fine”. You’ve been going on and on and on about how alone you feel because John’s not taking your feelings into account while he’s having his breakdown, but you’re just doing the same thing. We’ve all been going through this, Tim, but you’re the only one who’s been running away.

TIM
Ok, ok. Look, let’s keep going. There’s nobody here.

MICHAEL
Yes there is.

TIM
Stay back!

MICHAEL
No.

MARTIN
Who are you?

MICHAEL
I’m Michael. Did the Archivist not tell you about me?

MARTIN
No?

MICHAEL
Good. Surprises are better.

TIM
What are you doing down here?

MICHAEL
Probably watching the Archivist die. Maybe not. Either way is amusing. I… I think it’s called ‘a sport’.

TIM
What?

MICHAEL
I think I might also kill you. It would be easier than killing the Archivist. None of you are protected down here.

MARTIN
No, no, now hang on…

MICHAEL
You are going to try and help him. And I want to see what happens without you there.

TIM
Martin…

MARTIN
No, no, okay, because there’s two of us and there’s one of you, okay. He’s not killing anyone!

TIM
Martin, look at his hands!

MARTIN
Oh.

TIM
Go!

[SINISTER DOOR OPENS]
[FOOTSTEPS]
[MICHAEL LAUGHS]
[SINISTER DOOR SHUTS]
[HEAVY BREATHING]
[Distorted] Where the hell are we?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[HEAVY BREATHING AND SOFTLY CREEPING FOOTSTEPS]
ARCHIVIST
I have no idea where I am. There were stairs. I, I, I kept going lower. No arrows pointing down, though, which is… good? I don’t know. I found a weapon. Of sorts.

[RINGING OF A METAL PIPE AGAINST A WALL]
I don’t know if it’ll help. I mean, it’s not going to help. I can’t fight it with a pipe. I’m tired just carrying it. But it does make me feel a bit better, so… so that’s something.

I keep thinking I might have gotten away, but I think it can sense me… uh, at least a bit. I can hide for now, I think, but I don’t know for how long. I can’t kill it. I heard the tape. It erased Sasha, just like that. Deleted her from the world. I just hope this tape works the same, that my voice remains intact. Even if I’m gone, even it wears a face that people think is mine, pulls me apart, becomes me. Listen, it’s not me! Whoever hears this: it is not me.

I don’t even remember what she looks like. Even now that I know, now I’ve seen it twisted and… I still don’t remember her. The only face I can picture is…

NOT!SASHA
[Distant] Jooooohhhhn… Jooooohhhhn… Come out, come out, wherever you are.

[SCARED BREATHING]
It’s okay John; it’s Sasha. Reliable old Sasha.

Nothing to be afraid of.

…

You seem stressed, John. You’ve been under a lot of pressure. You should talk about it. Have a real good chat. You like talking, don’t you, John?

…

I’m going to wear you, John. I’m going to wear everything you are. Like you never existed. No-one will even know. And it will hurt. Oh, yes, it will hurt. It hurt Sasha.

ARCHIVIST
Shut up!

NOT!SASHA
[Close and distorted] There you are.

[HEAVY BREATHING AS IF RUNNING]
[WEIRD SCUTTLING MOVEMENT]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[DIALOGUE IS VERY DISTORTED UNTIL NEXT CLICK]
TIM
Where the hell are we?

MARTIN
I don’t know. I thought… I thought the door led further down.

TIM
I don’t think we’re under the Institute anymore.

MARTIN
What was that thing?

TIM
I’m trying not to think about it. It makes my head feel weird.

MARTIN
Well? Wh… which way do you think?

TIM
Er… Right. Let’s go right.

MARTIN
[SIGH] Fine. I don’t think this thing’s working properly. It k-keeps making this weird noise.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[HEAVY BREATHING SLOWS]
NOT!SASHA
I’m glad we got a chance to run, John. It makes it so much more satisfying.

Do you have any idea how long I watched you? You and your little… acolytes. I hated it.

Let me tell you a story. You like stories; we can even call it a statement if you want.

Once upon a time there was a monster, but no one realised. Sometimes someone did and then they were scared, so that was good. But one day a nasty man came along. A nasty man who tricked the monster and wrapped it all in webs and tied it to a table.

So the monster got its friends to carry the table all around, and it still got to take faces and scare people. Then one day it was sent to the house of its enemy, which had the biggest eyes you ever did see. The monster was sent there to steal all its secrets, but it was sad because it couldn’t scare anyone any more.

Then finally, after what seemed like forever, a stupid, arrogant, little man cut the webs and set the monster free. Free to kill and scare whoever it wanted.

So thank you. I did leave what clues I could but I never dared hope you would actually release me.

[MENACING SATISFIED LAUGHTER]
I must confess, though, I almost enjoyed watching you scurry around. Desperately missing the point. At least I knew what I was looking for. You really aren’t even a shadow of your predecessor. You’re nothing. Even I would make a better Archivist than you.

Maybe I will.

You’ll miss the Unknowing, of course, but you wouldn’t understand it anyway.

ARCHIVIST
[Whispering] I’m sorry. Martin, Tim… Sasha. I’m so sorry. I should have… I didn’t… I’m sorry.

God, I’m so sorry.

NOT!SASHA
I wonder, if I wear you, will I really become the Archivist? Rob the eye of its pupil?

Probably not. Better to just kill you I think.

Yes. I think that would be best.

ARCHIVIST
[Whispering] Please forgive me. If you’re still alive… if… if you hear this. Get as far away from the Magnus Institute -

[GASP]
NOT!SASHA
Found you.

ARCHIVIST
No. Please…

NOT!SASHA
Sorry, John, but this is -

[SOUND OF STONE AND BRICK SUDDENLY SHIFTING. A SCREAM FROM THE NOT!SASHA.]
[SILENCE]
ARCHIVIST
What?

[SLOW FOOTSTEPS]
MYSTERY FIGURE
Mr. Sims?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

MYSTERY FIGURE
I think it’s time we had a talk.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK] [CLICK]
LEITNER
Please! I don’t know how much time we have.

ARCHIVIST
So you said.

[PIPE IS PLACED ON TABLE]
LEITNER
Is that necessary? You think I pose a danger to you?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes I do.

LEITNER
Then take it with you, but I can’t afford to just sit here.

ARCHIVIST
So talk fast.

LEITNER
Could we at least have this conversation in the tunnels?

ARCHIVIST
I’m not going back down there. That thing… Is it dead?

LEITNER
Unlikely. Whether something like that can actually be destroyed… It is trapped. I, I hope for a very long time.

ARCHIVIST
And Sasha… The real one?

LEITNER
Was that her name? I’m afraid she’s gone. Whatever it does to those it takes, they don’t come back. She’s dead.

Do you need a moment?

ARCHIVIST
No. No, I’m… You’re not what I expected.

LEITNER
I suppose not. My family emigrated when I was very young. English was always my first language. I used to adopt an accent sometimes when meeting people, a sort of personal joke, but truth be told, my Norwegian is terrible. Now, are you going to help me or not?

ARCHIVIST
You first. You want my help, you answer my questions. Agreed?

LEITNER
Agreed.

ARCHIVIST
Good. Good.

Statement of Jurgen Leitner. February 16th, 2017. Statement begins.

LEITNER
You’re quite like her, you know. I suppose that’s no surprise. Anyway, your questions?

ARCHIVIST
Right. Let’s start with what you did down there. How you… trapped it.

[BOOKS ARE PLACED ON TABLE]
LEITNER
An unexpurgated copy of Ruskin’s The Seven Lamps of Architecture, published in 1845. Of course, Ruskin didn’t even begin writing the book until 1846, and the text of this one varies markedly from the version that was distributed. It gives an acute sense of the walls pressing in around you, and if consumed recklessly, will physically entomb the reader.

Over the years, I have found that it interacts with Smirke’s architecture, and those tunnels specifically, in a more predictable way. By carefully reading specific passages in certain locations, I am able to exercise… a degree of control over the substance of the tunnels.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t hear you say anything down there.

LEITNER
I said reading. It doesn’t need to be spoken aloud.

ARCHIVIST
Right. So you can change the tunnels?

LEITNER
I can. Though even setting aside the obvious dangers, it’s a time-consuming and imprecise process. That said, I will admit that when you began to explore again, I… closed off certain passages, and remade others. I, I wanted to keep you contained while deciding whether to make contact.

ARCHIVIST
You moved the tunnels for me?

LEITNER
The upper levels, yes. Made them more rational, actually. It didn’t strike you as odd that you were able to map them in a matter of weeks?

ARCHIVIST
I thought I was just getting a sense of the place. I suppose you left the rubbish around for me as well, giving me hints? And the arrow?

LEITNER
No. I thought I was being very careful cleaning up after myself, but you have keener eyes than I gave you credit for. I should have expected that, I suppose.

The arrow, however, was not mine. The ‘Not-Sasha’ had come down several times. I suspect it was almost as curious about me as you were.

Perhaps it thought you might have better luck flushing me out. I suppose, in a way, it was right. In retrospect, using The Seven Lamps so much was perhaps unwise. It is possible I unbalanced Smirke’s architecture somewhat, however cautious I might have tried to be.

ARCHIVIST
And the other book?

LEITNER
Hardly a book. Barely twelve pages. It is entitled A Disappearance. If read cover to cover, it removes one from the world. I cannot say precisely what that means, only that the assistant I assigned to it, Jacob Feng, was never seen again.

I have found, however, that reading only one or two words is sufficient to hide me from the prying eyes of your master. It allowed me to talk with Gertrude in relative safety, and occasionally come above ground for my own ends.

ARCHIVIST
My master? We’ll get to that. How long have you been down there?

LEITNER
Hard to say. I’ve been in hiding for over twenty years now, ever since my library was destroyed.

Obviously I have not spent all that time below your Institute. The old Millbank prison tunnels stretch out a very long way, and there are other entrances than the one below the Archives. I have a small number of… secure locations, though since Gertrude’s death I have been reluctant to leave the tunnels. I dislike spending too much time in the open.

I am always being hunted. Both by creatures like the ones you have encountered, and by certain human individuals who believe I am to blame for the books that destroyed their loved ones. Three years ago, I made the mistake of spending a full night outside my safehouses. I was almost beaten to death by an angry goth.

ARCHIVIST
[chuckling slightly] That’ll be our Gerard.

LEITNER
I don’t follow.

ARCHIVIST
I wouldn’t worry about him. He passed away a couple of years ago.

LEITNER
That is hardly my point.

ARCHIVIST
So are you to blame?

LEITNER
For what?

ARCHIVIST
For the books. Or did you just stick your name on them by accident? Why the ‘Library of Jurgen Leitner’?

LEITNER
I… thought that I could control them; that I alone had the knowledge to contain them. Back then, I believed they were simply books. Horrifying, powerful, yes, but with rules, limits that could be charted. I was a fool. I had no idea what forces lay behind them, or that they had other servants that might come searching.

I was ruthless, I will admit that. I don’t know how many assistants I sacrificed to learn the secrets of the volumes I collected. Dozens, at least. Only a few escaped with their life and mind intact, and even then they were deeply marked. But I was relentless. I saw myself as a guardian, a reverse Pandora, gathering the evils of the world and locking them away.

And so I branded them with my seal. I told myself that if any should escape such a mark could help me retrieve them. But I think, in my heart, I dreamed of my work becoming known. That “The Library of Jurgen Leitner” would stand as a symbol of courage and protection. Hubris. I suppose it is fitting punishment that my name has become a watchword for evil, spoken by those who only know it as marking the darkest, most terrible of secrets.

My name has become a curse.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me from the beginning.

LEITNER
I was born the heir to great wealth. My family used to deal in manufacture: steel, textiles, all sorts. But, by my time, it was largely a matter of extensive property holdings and carefully managed investments. Money making money.

There was never the need for me to learn anything of worth. I suppose in another life I might have been another rich wastrel, content to squander my inheritance on indulgence and comfort, but I always felt a calling to make something of myself. To matter. I had no interest in politics and, while I was certainly no fool, my attempts at academia were ultimately unsatisfying. Business bored me to tears. The only thing I was ever truly talented at was acquiring things. I suppose you could say I was skilled at shopping.

I don’t say that to be glib, nor as a comment on my wealth. I don’t mean I gained any satisfaction from wasting money on vulgar Bond Street trinkets. I mean, I had a genuine and pronounced talent for finding items of worth and convincing their owners to part with them. The most valuable things always need to be hunted, and that was where I excelled. It started by simply cross-referencing auction catalogues with local records and slightly obscure books of art history, but soon I had a network of contacts and took dinner with some of the most eccentric curio dealers in the world.

It was Desmond Lorell that first told me of the books. They were a rumour, as these things always are, and he had no idea of the dangers. “Magic books” he called them. He had believed them to be coded spellbooks derived, of all things, from the writings of Merlin!

Poor Desmond. When he finally found one, an old leather-bound thing titled The Stalwart Hunters’ Almanac, he had no idea what to do with it. I suppose, looking back, his death was a very good thing for me. The extent of the mutilation, and how closely it correlated with the passages he had described to me, left little doubt as to the connection. So when I acquired the book myself I took exceptional precautions.

The thing that surprises me most, I think, is how readily I accepted the existence of the supernatural. I had occasionally made purchases before that that had caused… anomalies, but nothing like those books. Yet as soon as their nature became apparent, I simply accepted it and began to factor it into my dealings with them. It was shortly afterwards I hired my first assistant. A dour man, by the name of Albert Stross. He barely lasted a fortnight.

It didn’t take me long to track down other books like Lorell’s, and it seemed like almost overnight I had found my purpose. I was to be the keeper of evil tomes. To begin with, I never gave much thought to their origins; I simply concerned myself with acquiring them, and making sure I had staff I could spare to study them. It was easier than I expected, and I’m always surprised nobody attempted such a thing before me. I suppose few walk away from their first encounter with any desire to look for more, if they walk away at all. And of those that do, none would have had my skill at finding them, or my extensive resources.

Luck played a significant role as well. It was shortly after I had begun to have problems storing them that I discovered the work of the architect Robert Smirke. There were several volumes in my possession that, if kept them close to each other reacted… very badly. But Smirke’s writings, his principles of balance between opposing forces, gave me some inkling as to a solution. Today was not the first time my life has been saved by his architecture. I commissioned a house to be built, based on some of his designs, and spent a good deal of time and money gaining access to existing buildings he had worked on, with the aim of storing the books safely. I believe at about that time I commissioned my bookplates and began to label them.

And then the house was complete, and I had my library. A vast, lopsided structure, by turns cavernous or maze-like, depending on the needs of the inmates. By the end, I had nine hundred and seventy-eight volumes in my library. Some innocuous, some unsettling and some utterly murderous. In the end, I didn’t have much time to enjoy my achievement. It was only a few years after the house was complete that the attack came.

You must understand, I had only ever encountered these dark powers in the form of books or the occasional antique. I had no idea that there were people or creatures out there that served them. So I was not prepared. All my defences were inward facing, to prevent the contents of my library getting out. I suppose getting in must have seemed a trifle.

It started with the visitors. Almost every day, some stranger would turn up at my door and ask to see my collection. Now, whatever my secret ambitions might have been, I was very careful not to let word get out about what I was doing. And these people, they were… wrong somehow. They didn’t move as people should move, and their cadence was very strange when they spoke. They almost always forgot to blink.

Even then I didn’t realise what was coming, and simply sent them away with a firm refusal. When it actually happened, it was so all fast I barely had time to register it. One moment, I was typing a new catalogue entry for A Journal of a Plague Year, and the next… everything was screaming. My assistants, the books, even me.

Thomas McMann was stabbed through the throat by something with too many teeth and limbs like knives. Mary Johnson was pulled into a cavernous maw that opened beneath her. Gregory Todd ran into a door that shouldn’t have been there. A great hand reached down through the roof and plucked away Leandra Toulouse. And there was one other assistant, whose… whose name I don’t recall, but the last I saw of him, he was being pulled into a great, pulsating pile of meat.

I don’t know how I escaped. Perhaps because I designed the house, I knew how to best move through it. Perhaps I was sensible enough to steer clear of the rooms that had fallen into darkness, or burned with a fire that seemed to leave the books untouched. Perhaps they let me go. Or perhaps, once again, it was simply luck.

I didn’t look back as I fled. Nothing seemed to chase me, at least not then. I had none of the books with me, and that was what they were after. Of course, by the time I realised that, there were many others who were hunting me. Mostly vengeance-minded folk who had lost someone to the books, plastered with my name, that were now free once again. It was easier to let the world think I was dead and, to one degree or another, I’ve been in hiding ever since.

ARCHIVIST
Huh. You’re right.

LEITNER
About which part?

ARCHIVIST
You were a fool.

LEITNER
Hmm.

ARCHIVIST
Why didn’t you burn them?

LEITNER
Pride. If they were destroyed, what was I to guard? Even so, I don’t believe that would have solved as many problems as you think. Many of them wouldn’t have burned, and some even liked the flames. And those that did, I now believe, would have been released to take a different form.

ARCHIVIST
But you didn’t know any this when you had almost a thousand of them in your care?

LEITNER
I’ve spent twenty years trying to learn from my mistakes.

ARCHIVIST
You said you didn’t take any of them with you, so where did you get these?

LEITNER
When I started working with Gertrude, she hunted down some editions I thought might help.

ARCHIVIST
And why was Gertrude helping you?

LEITNER
Aside from my knowledge about the books? I think she was lonely. I didn’t meet her until about six years ago, after she’d lost the last of her own assistants. She would mention them sometimes. I believe she missed having someone to talk to on occasion.

ARCHIVIST
I… I didn’t know Gertrude had assistants.

LEITNER
Of course. Three of them, each meeting an unpleasant end. So, when she found me, it seemed natural that we help each other. In this instance, that meant finding certain useful books.

ARCHIVIST
Like The Key of Solomon?

LEITNER
That one was a mistake. I thought that, in the tunnels, there might be the stability to examine it properly, learn something of the forces arrayed against us. But it went wrong. We had to destroy it. I should have known, really. It was one of the few volumes that contained elements of several different powers.

ARCHIVIST
You keep talking about these… powers? These forces arrayed against you. What are they?

LEITNER
[Sighing] I’d hoped you would at least know that much by now. But I suppose you are simply the observer, and making these connections is not your role. Gertrude could be much the same at times.

ARCHIVIST
Just tell me!

LEITNER
There are… entities in this world. Beings of vast, dark power. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say they are ‘next to the world’, rather than in it. Their true existence could not function in the universe we live in, at least not as it is now. They have nothing in their pure state that could be present in the physical world so they sit in…

ARCHIVIST
Different dimensions.

LEITNER
No, I don’t think so. If there are such things, then these beings are linked inexorably to ours. They are not within our world, but they can… affect it in certain ways: reaching out with their will to change things. I don’t know where they come from or how they came to exist, but they are, from what I can determine, effectively eternal.

ARCHIVIST
Are you… are you trying to tell me all of this is at the behest of… evil gods?

LEITNER
Oh, there are certainly those who see them as gods. A few even go so far as to try and worship them, but I don’t find it helpful to think of them like that. Perhaps you could liken them to one of the old pantheons, each with its own rituals, agendas and spheres of influence, but I find simplifying them in such a way makes them harder to truly understand.

The ‘gods’ were conceived of by humankind as a reflection of themselves, their motives and actions divinely powerful, but in essence purely human. These… ‘things’… I find them hard enough to understand without trying to force human frameworks onto them.

ARCHIVIST
So the creatures are, what, priests? These books their holy texts?

LEITNER
I told you it was an unhelpful analogy. Let’s try another one. Um… Imagine, you are an ant, and you have never before seen a human. Then one day, into your colony, a huge fingernail is thrust, scraping and digging. You flee to another entrance, only to be confronted by a staring eye gazing at you. You climb to the top, trying to find escape and, above you, can see the vast dark shadow of a boot falling upon you. Would that ant be able to construct these things into the form of a single human being? Or would it believe itself to be under attack by three different, equally terrible, but very distinct assailants?

ARCHIVIST
So the books, the monsters, they’re part of these beings? Just extensions of them? Fingers being pushed into our world?

LEITNER
The books are, I think, their essences in a purer form. The other things that stalk us, from what I know of them, they have varying wills of their own. All in service of the thing they’re a part of, but not directly controlled by the mind beneath them. At least, inasmuch as these entities have something we could recognise as a mind.

ARCHIVIST
Like a… a, a muscle, spasming on reflex?

LEITNER
Yes, that’s actually rather good.

ARCHIVIST
It would explain Michael’s identity issues.

LEITNER
Michael? Oh… that, that’s what the Distortion calls itself these days, isn’t it? That one is part of a power that my assistant Domingo used to call “Esmentiaras”, which I believe translates as ‘it is lies’ or ‘it is lying’. At the time, of course, we just used it as a way to classify books. I call it the Spiral. It deals in fooling the senses, in making you see and hear things that are not there, in drawing you into mazes and making you doubt your own sanity.

ARCHIVIST
Fractals.

LEITNER
Yes. It seems to have a particular fondness for them.

ARCHIVIST
What about bones? Does one of them manifest with, with bones?

LEITNER
[HEAVY SIGH]
You’re thinking too literally. Examining the physical categorisation, but ignoring the meaning of the thing. What are the bones? In the Distortion, your “Michael”, the structure of a skeleton, an established reality in your mind, is twisted and warped into an impossible form. But in other cases? Are they a symbol of slaughter and butchery? Are they the familiar made wrong? Or are they simply part of the messy, physicality of flesh?

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, this is a lot to take in.

LEITNER
Well, do so quickly. We’ve wasted enough time on your questions.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Then I’ll make this one simple: did you kill Gertrude?

LEITNER
No. Don’t be absurd.

ARCHIVIST
Then who did?

LEITNER
This is a distraction! You’re in no danger -

ARCHIVIST
Who?

LEITNER
I believe it was Elias.

ARCHIVIST
What? Why?

LEITNER
I assume he discovered we were planning to destroy the Archives.

ARCHIVIST
Gertrude was going to destroy the Archives?

LEITNER
This is why I need those files. I searched this place thoroughly, and they’re not here, so I assume Elias took them when he killed her. I need your help to get into his office.

ARCHIVIST
But the cameras? They showed him.

LEITNER
Simple mechanical eyes? In his place of power? You think he can’t control everything they see? Assuming such interference wouldn’t ruin them beyond recovery, of course.

ARCHIVIST
This place belongs to one of them, doesn’t it?

LEITNER
You know the answer to that.

ARCHIVIST
The Eye.

LEITNER
I have also heard it called Beholding.

ARCHIVIST
And I…

LEITNER
You belong to it, too.

ARCHIVIST
I… Uh… I… I think I need some air.

[SOUND OF FUMBLING IN DRAWER]
LEITNER
We don’t have time for you to have a breakdown, Archivist.

[CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]
ARCHIVIST
I’m going to have a cigarette. Don’t…

[DOOR OPENS]
Don’t.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[SILENCE]
LEITNER
I’m not sure you would have liked him, you know. He’s paranoid enough. But I don’t think he’s got the stomach for it.

[SILENCE]
[DOOR OPENS]
[SURPRISED BREATH]
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Well. This is a surprise.

[CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]
ELIAS
Reach for a book and I will kill you.

[CHAIR SCRAPES BUT SLOWER, AS IF RESUMING SEAT]
ELIAS
How much have you told him?

LEITNER
Enough.

ELIAS
About Gertrude?

LEITNER
No. No, I didn’t have time.

ELIAS
I’ve wondered for so long who it could be down there. Who was helping her. I honestly never would have guessed.

LEITNER
How did you know I was here?

ELIAS
I didn’t. You’re very well hidden. But John is not, and he failed to take the same precautions I’m sure you took for granted with Gertrude. I knew he was talking to someone. And it turns out to be Jurgen Leitner himself. [Soft chuckling] What an honour.

LEITNER
[Begging] Elias, please!

ELIAS
What did you want from him?

LEITNER
The files. The ones you took from Gertrude.

ELIAS
Planning a little light arson, are we, Jurgen?

LEITNER
It’s not just the Institute and you know it. They had everything she had found on the Stranger.

ELIAS
I know. It’s, um… what do they call it?

LEITNER
The Unknowing.

ELIAS
[Chuckles] Creativity never was their forte.

LEITNER
You of all people should want to stop them.

ELIAS
And we will. But I don’t think we’ll need your help.

LEITNER
And what’s he going to think when he gets back?

ELIAS
Well, he was always going to need to fly the nest at some point. Go out and see the world for himself.

LEITNER
He might die.

ELIAS
It’s always a danger. Almost always.

LEITNER
Elias, it doesn’t have to be like -

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF BRUTAL PIPE MURDER]
[PIPE DROPS AND ROLLS]
[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
[SILENCE EXCEPT FOR THE SOUND OF DRIPPING]
[DEAD SILENCE]
[DOOR OPENS]
ARCHIVIST
Sorry, I’ve been quit for five years now, but th -

[STUNNED SILENCE]
Oh.

Oh god… I need to… Uh… I need to, um… [trails off almost incoherently]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
I think it’s working again.

MARTIN
Tim, where were we?

TIM
…yeah, yeah it’s recording.

MARTIN
Forget the bloody tapes, Tim! Are we sure this is… this is here?

TIM
Yes. Because the tape works now.

MARTIN
How long was it?

TIM
I don’t know. And I don’t care.

MARTIN
Sorry? Sorry, what? How can you not care!?

TIM
Because this is us now. Worms. Monsters. Corridors. They’ll keep happening until one of them kills us, and we’ve just got to deal with it.

[SIGH]
Any sign of the woman?

MARTIN
I don’t think so. We should have helped her.

TIM
No.

MARTIN
But we could have tried!

TIM
How?

MARTIN
…

TIM
Look. There’s no point talking about it. It happened. I hope it doesn’t happen again. Statement fucking ends.

[SILENCE]
MARTIN
We… we should look for John. Maybe we can still help.

TIM
It’s been days. At least.

MARTIN
We can’t just sit here moping!

TIM
It’s probably already killed him.

MARTIN
Don’t joke about that, okay?

TIM
Fine.

MARTIN
Tim!

TIM
Try his office.

MARTIN
Yeah. Right.

[DOOR OPENS TO THE SOUND OF DRIPPING]
John?

Oh. Oh no.

TIM
I told you he was going to do something like this.

MARTIN
Oh, no, no… Who is it?

TIM
I told you.

MARTIN
Oh John… What have you done?

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jonathan Sims, Head Arch - [sigh] former head archivist at the Magnus Institute, London, regarding a childhood encounter with a book formerly possessed by Jurgen Leitner. Statement recorded by subject, February 18th, 2017.

Statement begins.

I have been thinking a lot over the last couple of days about how this began. For me, that is. I cannot help but feel that hand in hand with the death of Jurgen Leitner came the death of the lens through which I viewed the world. Even in the depths of my paranoia, something I now attribute to the presence of… of the being that was posing as Sasha, like a grain of sand behind my eye, rubbing and irritating, but with no clear cause.

Even then, I knew how the world worked. There were supernatural things in the world, but they were rare - isolated and exaggerated, vastly outnumbered by wild tales and drunken imaginings. The one name I held in my mind as a true source of evil was Jurgen Leitner, and I knew him as the worst of it, for it was his name that had marked the encounter that scarred my youth. And of course, in my heart, I knew that no-one else could have possibly seen anything as horrible as I had. Well, maybe I could have named one person, but… I watched him disappear forever.

But now I know what Jurgen Leitner truly was. A spoiled child, playing with forces he barely understood, calling himself a jailor to things he couldn’t even conceptualise. There is so much more horror in this world than I had ever dreamt possible. And my suffering, I now know, pales in comparison to what has befallen others far more innocent than I. But perhaps not for long.

These beings that lurk beyond us know my name and, if I understand Leitner correctly, one of them has already claimed me. The Eye. Appropriate, I suppose. I do not know how many of them there are, or precisely how they separate, but I do know that the Eye - Beholding - was not the first that I encountered in my life. The first was the Spider. The Web. And I have no idea what that might mean.

I was eight years old when my grandmother gave me the book. No-one ever believes me when I tell them my age. I don’t know if it’s the already greying hair or something in my demeanour, but they always act surprised when I mention being a child in the Nineties. I will admit the last few years have aged me considerably. Regardless, it must have been a year or two since the library was destroyed, though I had no inkling of it at the time.

My parents had passed away when I was too young to really remember them; my father of an accidental fall when I was two and my mother a couple of years later from complications during routine surgery. My extended family weren’t close and I had no siblings, so I ended up living with my grandmother, a kind enough woman, but she had already raised her children, and the resentment she felt at having to raise another was never something she completely managed to hide from me. It seemed to mingle with her grief, so the sadness over her own lost son would manifest in recriminations and bitterness.

Saying this aloud I worry I’m painting too bleak a picture of my grandmother. She cared for me as well as she was able, and whatever her private feelings might have been, she did try her best.

And I was hardly an easy child to deal with. While I may not have shared the inclinations of my peers towards active mischief, I was precocious and impatient, quick to talk back, and even quicker to wander off whenever I grew bored. By the time I was eight, the police had had to return me from my explorations at least three times, and my grandmother swore that if it happened again she would begin locking me inside the house. And I fully believed her.

She did discover that the one thing that could keep me rooted to the spot were books. Television pacified me for a half hour or so, but a book would keep me in place until I had finished it, and for all the voracity of my reading, I was never actually that fast, lingering on pages that caught my imagination. So in this she saw a solution. The difficulty was I was also very picky, and looking back on it there was little rhyme or reason to what I did or did not care to read. I never tried to really define it, but I think the closest I could come to putting it into words was that I hated to read anything I felt like I had read before. This made it something of a nightmare to keep me entertained, as any author with a distinctive enough style would only ever afford me a single book’s worth of reading before I tired of them. I can still hear my grandmother’s voice, trying to hide that irritation bubbling up: “But you like Diana Wynne Jones!”

In the end, she came up with a solution that now seems like a stroke of genius, although at the time I found it strange and bothersome. The local library was some distance away, so between visits, my grandmother would go to all the local charity and second-hand bookshops and buy up every book they had that was fifty pence or less, then she would present me the pile and I would look through it until I found something I liked, or at least tolerated, and then I would read that. After I was completely done with the pile, she would donate it to one of the other charity shops.

It wasn’t something that could be kept up forever, but it worked for longer than you’d think. It was shortly after she had started with this system that I found… my first Leitner.

One of the things that annoyed me most about my grandmother’s approach was that she never seemed exercise any sort of judgement at all about how appropriate something might be for me. I didn’t mind this so much when it let me read a slightly-too-gruesome thriller, but she would also often present me with stacks full of bright, square cardboard books, of the sort you’d read aloud to a pre-schooler. These bothered me far more than any dull technical manual or dog-eared dictionary, as I couldn’t help but feel it was making a comment about my intelligence. I mean, obviously that was absurd - I watched my grandmother grabbing the books without even glancing at their covers, just checking the price and stacking them. But somehow, it still felt like an insult that she might in some way think I was at a level to be reading The Elephant and the Balloon, or whatever nonsense it was.

So, when searching through the latest trove of books, I felt my hand grip another square, thin volume, I almost discarded it without even looking. But I did look. And what I saw immediately struck me as odd. Instead of the garish colours that I expected, the cover was monochrome, matt white with scratchy black webs covering its corners, and in the middle of the cover, half-written, half-carved in a childlike hand was the title: A Guest for Mr. Spider.

On the back cover there was no blurb, just a crudely sketched image of what I assumed to be the eponymous Mr. Spider. He stood upright on his spindly back legs, attached to a disproportionately swollen abdomen. The rest of his legs were splayed at odd angles, as though in the middle of some sort of dance, and his head had no mouth, but was covered asymmetrically with eight eyes of all shapes and sizes. On the top of it there sat a small bowler hat, which had been drawn in a splash of red ink, unlike the black and white which made up the rest of the image.

I was a bit taken aback. I had seen plenty of children’s books that tried to be a little bit scary, or ended up being unintentionally disturbing, but this felt different. There was something to this drawing, to this book, that I’d never seen before. A violence seemed to ooze from it, sticky and pungent. I had no idea what was inside, but I knew that I hated that book. And I knew that wasn’t going to stop me opening it. You know what was immediately inside the cover. If you’re in a position to be listening to this, you know exactly whose mark was there.

The book itself starts with a blank room in a simple house, almost entirely bare save for a small table with a pot of flowers on it and two doors. The flowers are drooping in a way that might just be a poor rendering of bluebells, but with the black and white it just makes them look sick.

In the centre of the room stands the figure I take to be Mr. Spider, his arms are still splayed wildly, and his back is turned to the reader. He is staring, it seems, at the door on the left. On the next page the image is identical, save that the arms are now in different places. The third and the fourth are the same again. There is no text on any of them.

Then, on page five, the words ‘KNOCK KNOCK’ appear next to the door in the same style as the words of the title. Mr. Spider’s arms are suddenly straight and still by his side. The text comes again: ‘WHO IS IT, MR. SPIDER?’

The door opens, and stood there is a thin, scrawny looking fly clutching a box. It is crudely dressed in an ill-fitting suit. It is hard to tell from the fly’s face, but his attitude seems to be one of trepidation or anxiety. ‘IT’S MR. BLUEBOTTLE’, the text reads, ‘AND HE’S BROUGHT YOU A CAKE’. The next page is a close-up rendering of a large slice of cake in a box; it does have colour, but it’s a pale green that makes me think of disease. Then comes a page showing the insectoid face of Mr. Bluebottle, the worry now stark etched there. Then there is a page with no picture at all, just the words: ‘MR. SPIDER DOESN’T LIKE IT’.

Then the book returns to the room. Both doors are once again closed. The only difference between this image and the one on the very first page is the ink that seems to have been spilled on the lower half of the right-hand door. There are several more pages of Mr. Spider waiting, his arms a windmill of activity.

Then another ‘KNOCK KNOCK’ on the left door, and Mr. Spider goes rigid. ‘WHO IS IT, MR. SPIDER?’ In that position it’s clear his belly is even larger than it was before. The door opens on another fly, this one slightly larger, wearing a pale yellow dress. ‘IT’S MRS. FRUIT’, the book announces, ‘AND SHE’S BROUGHT YOU SOME FLOWERS’. The flowers on the next page look even less healthy than the ones on the table, and are coloured with a gentle pink. A close-up on her face, frozen in stark fear. ‘MR. SPIDER DOESN’T EAT FLOWERS’, the next page announces, and Mrs. Fruit is gone, the door closed again.

The right hand door is more noticeably stained now; the once-black ink now seems like a dark, crusty brown at the hinges and the seams. The flowers brought by the doomed fruit fly now stand on the table, but they are more clearly wilted and stained a deep, vivid red. Mr. Spider’s abdomen is engorged and straining, and where his mouth would be is marked by the same dried brown colour as the door. His arms are moving once again.

On the messier page, with more colour to contrast it, I can see that his hands aren’t empty, but are weaving and pulling on thin grey threads, that stretch all around the room, and out through the cracks in both doors.

‘KNOCK KNOCK. WHO IS IT, MR. SPIDER?’ Behind the door stands a large, burly fly, this one dressed in baggy overalls. Next to it stands a much smaller fly, dressed in what appears to be a child’s version of those same overalls. They are both openly weeping. ‘IT’S MR. HORSE. AND HE’S BROUGHT YOU HIS SON’. The close-up on that fly’s face is an image that still comes to me when I’m having trouble sleeping. Then the text: ‘MR. SPIDER WANTS MORE.’

When we go back to the picture of the empty parlour it’s smeared all over with dark reds and browns. Mr. Spider’s abdomen now dwarfs the rest of him and seeps a sticky red, along with the now clearly visible grey thread. He has turned to face the reader. Staring into me as his arms move and move and move.

The second-to-last page shows the right-hand door up close, the stains and the ink seeping from the edges. It is looks like it has a cut-away panel that can be opened onto the final page. ‘MR. SPIDER WANTS ANOTHER GUEST FOR DINNER’ it reads, ‘IT IS POLITE TO KNOCK’. I feel my hand closing into a fist and reaching for the door, preparing to rap my knuckles on the grimy old wood.

It was at that moment that a hand far bigger than my own slapped the book from my grip, before shoving me hard in the chest and sending me sprawling onto the floor. I was in the park a few roads away from my house. Had I taken the book there to read? Or did I somehow wander there while engrossed in it? To this day I don’t know, but I was in the park, and standing over me was… you know, for the life of me I can’t remember his name. Thomas, maybe? Daniel? I almost want to say Michael, but that isn’t it. He saved my life, and I can’t remember his name. Why does your memory do that to so many important people? Some people deserve to be remembered.

He was a bully. Eighteen or nineteen, I think. He helped my grandmother with odd jobs sometimes, just a bit of cash-in-hand work, but he had always taken a dislike to me. At the time I had convinced myself that it was because of how smart I was, since he was, to put it charitably, not very clever, but I have since come to the conclusion that I was a deeply annoying child. Still, he was more than twice my age, so I’m certainly not excusing his decision to torment me whenever he got the chance. Name-calling, the odd beating, sometimes stealing from me - all very standard. He just made the extremely poor choice to do it at that exact moment.

My tormentor bent down and picked up what he had slapped out of my hands and examined the book. I was too dazed to protest, and he started to mock “little Einstein” for reading “a kiddie book”. But as he did so, he flicked through it, and as his eyes passed over more and more of the page, the words tailed off, and he seemed to be reading it himself. His hands shook ever so slightly as he slowly made his way through it, and his legs began to move. It was jerky and unsteady, and he didn’t seem to notice that he was doing it.

I had no idea what was going on, not really, but I was somehow desperate to get that book back. He was much bigger than me, though, so all I could do was follow as he walked down alleys and side streets. There were fewer and fewer people about, and I realised with a start that I had failed to notice nightfall. At the far end of a quiet residential road, he walked up to one of the houses. I never found it again, and for all I knew it might have actually been his house. He was still reading. When he reached the entrance, he held up the book and placed it on the front door. I saw that cut-away panel of Mr. Spider’s stained and bloody right-hand door. And he knocked on it twice. I saw the words clearly in my mind almost more than I heard the sound: ‘KNOCK KNOCK’.

The door opened, and inside was dark. Against that darkness I could see the thin grey strands wrapped around the limbs of my former bully. And then, from inside, stretched two impossibly long limbs, bony and covered in coarse, black hair. For a second, there was almost the start of a scream, but the legs wrapped around him too quickly, and he disappeared into the doorway and out of sight. It slammed behind him, and he was gone, taking the book with him.

Statement ends.

You can see, I hope, why this engendered in me something of a fascination with the supernatural, and some deep feelings regarding the name ‘Jurgen Leitner’. I cannot corroborate this story in any real form for obvious reasons. My grandmother peacefully passed away five years ago and there is no-one else who would have records of anything other than the general context. If I were assessing this as someone else’s statement, I would have dismissed it out of hand, and don’t think that doesn’t eat at me. But it is so vivid in my mind. The spider’s legs reaching from that tiny door. The first of the dark powers to touch me, perhaps, but it did not claim me.

Speaking this out loud for the first time, I am struck by something else. The feeling I have been living with my whole life, that if that poor idiot hadn’t gotten involved he would still be alive. A strange conviction that, if I had been able to face that thing myself, maybe I could have saved him.

Stopped it. Ridiculous, of course, I was eight, but it has made me reconsider my attitude to getting help. I have consistently kept the others at arm’s length, tried to deal with things myself and it… it hasn’t gone well. Whatever is going on, this ‘Unknowing’ that S- Not! Sasha was talking about, Elias killing Gertrude and maybe Leitner as well… I need help. I need allies. I just wish this revelation didn’t come just as everyone is convinced I’m a deranged killer.

[SOUND OF KEY IN LOCK AND DOOR OPENS]
ARCHIVIST
Oh, um… hello!

GEORGIE
Everything okay, John?

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Er, yeah. Just recording some thoughts. Didn’t… I didn’t know when you were going to be home.

GEORGIE
Sure.

[COAT IS PUT DOWN]
Did you… clean the kitchen?

ARCHIVIST
Er, a bit. I, I mean, I can’t exactly pay you anything; I thought…

GEORGIE
It’s fine. To be honest, it’s nice to have someone keep the Admiral company while I’m out.

ARCHIVIST
He literally just sleeps on the radiator. I… I’ve got a lot of time to kill.

GEORGIE
You… looking for a new job yet?

ARCHIVIST
It’s complicated, there’s… there’s a lot of stuff hanging over from the last one I’ve got to take care of.

GEORGIE
Well, like I said, you’re welcome here as long as you need.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose you are rolling in all that sock money.

GEORGIE
Urgh.

ARCHIVIST
Up to your eyeballs in mattresses.

GEORGIE
Don’t. They did send me one, you know. Oh, it was dreadful. I couldn’t sleep on it. I managed three days before my back gave out. I’ve still got it somewhere in the guest room if the other one’s not up to your exacting standards.

ARCHIVIST
Ooh… I think I’m alright. I was going to make a cup of tea if you want one?

GEORGIE
Maybe later, I’ve got recording of my own to do.

ARCHIVIST
Right you are. I’ll… I’ll keep quiet.

GEORGIE
I wouldn’t worry too much. The studio’s pretty well soundproofed.

ARCHIVIST
What’s this one about?

GEORGIE
Oh, I’m trying to find some new angle on the Ancient Ram Inn.

ARCHIVIST
I thought there’d already been a What the Ghost on that?

GEORGIE
No. No, you’re thinking of every other hacky, ghost podcast. But, you know, if it sells a few T-shirts….

ARCHIVIST
Oh, I, yes, I meant to say, actually, thank you for-

GEORGIE
Oh, it’s fine. Though I don’t know what sort of “employment dispute” leaves you without a change of clothes.

ARCHIVIST
You wouldn’t believe me.

GEORGIE
Do even you listen to my podcast? I’ll believe anything. But, on air.

ARCHIVIST
I will tell you, Georgie, I… I just…

GEORGIE
It’s alright. There’s no rush. I mean, it was clearly pretty bad, so only when you’re ready. If you’re ready.

ARCHIVIST
Thanks. I… Thank you.

GEORGIE
Sure. Anyway, I got recording to be doing. Catch you after.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah

[DOOR OPENS & CLOSES]
[ARCHIVIST EXHALES]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
DAISY
Fine.

MARTIN
Sorry. I just… I feel more comfortable with it on.

DAISY
I said it was fine.

MARTIN
Yeah, right, so, um… Statement of Martin Blackwood, interviewed by Detective D- Tonner. February 18th, two thousand and-

DAISY
What are you doing?

MARTIN
I… I’m making a statement. Isn’t that what you want? My statement?

DAISY
No. I just need you to answer the question.

MARTIN
Oh. Okay. I mean, y-you wanted a statement last time. About…it was… when I found Gertrude. Or at least your partner did.

DAISY
Didn’t know who the killer was last time. This time it’s simpler. And… And Basira’s not a police officer anymore.

MARTIN
Oh. Look, y-you’re sure it was him? I mean, I know, I know… but I can’t… He wouldn’t!

…

I… I don’t think it was him.

DAISY
You think we should be looking for other suspects?

MARTIN
Wh- N-No! No, I mean, not- Look, that tape that we gave you…

DAISY
Has a lot of distortion, some screaming and a recording of you seeing the body, you claim for the first time. Always suspicious when two suspects are each other’s only alibi.

MARTIN
I told you that there was someone else there. It may…

DAISY
Which one should we be asking, by the way? The man with the knife hands or the woman trapped in your ‘magic corridors’?

MARTIN
It happened.

DAISY
Well, if your witnesses appear back in this universe, maybe the situation will change.

Otherwise, it’s an easy choice: answer my question or I pin it on you.

MARTIN
Y-You can’t! Th-That’s not how this works.

…

Is it?

DAISY
Let me tell you how this works, Mr. Blackwood. I’ve got a hell of a workload, no partner and full operational discretion to make this whole situation go away. That means you help me or I make things very unpleasant for you.

MARTIN
But you’re the police!

DAISY
So, help me stop a killer. Where is Jonathan Sims?

MARTIN
[Pause] I don’t know.

DAISY
Don’t lie to me.

MARTIN
I don’t!

DAISY
Everyone I’ve talked to says you and him were close.

MARTIN
What? [Inordinately pleased] Did they? I mean… I mean, who said that? I, I, I guess, I mean, more than the rest, yeah okay, but-

DAISY
Did he have any other friends? Anyone outside the Institute he might have talked to?

MARTIN
I… No, I don’t really… think so. I don’t, don’t think he had much of a life outside of this place.

DAISY
There’s nowhere? No-one he might turn to?

MARTIN
He never talked about his friends, worked all hours… No. I’m sorry.

DAISY
[Sigh] Right. Get lost. Send Stoker in.

MARTIN
That’s it?

DAISY
Unless you know something else.

MARTIN
What about Sasha?

DAISY
[Sigh] No sign of her body here or in the tunnels. No any evidence she was the victim of violence. Maybe she saw the murder, or caught Sims smashing up the storage room, and took off. Maybe she’s with him. Or he killed her too. Either way, quicker I find him, the better for her, so if there is anything you’re not telling me…

MARTIN
No. I just… Bring her back safe, okay?

…

I’ll send Tim in.

[DOOR OPENS]
[DOOR CLOSES]
DAISY
Tim Stoker.

…

That your name?

TIM
Yeah.

DAISY
You want me to leave this running?

TIM
No. You can turn it off.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
DAISY
Hm.

TIM
Huh. Seems about right. Look, just… just leave it on or do you want to do this somewhere else?

DAISY
It’s fine.

TIM
Suppose you want my statement?

DAISY
I just need anything you know on the possible whereabouts of Jonathan Sims. Anywhere he feels safe, any friends or associates he might turn to?

TIM
No.

DAISY
You’re sure? Nothing that might help me find him? If you’re hiding something out of some sort of loyalty…

TIM
[Bitter laugh] Look, if I knew, I’d tell you. We haven’t talked too much lately.

DAISY
And you haven’t seen Sasha James either?

TIM
No. You think she’s dead?

DAISY
Can’t say yet. But looking at it, yeah, I think Sims killed her too.

TIM
Sounds right. More bodies for the archive.

DAISY
You’ve got quite a turnover. Anything you want to tell me about it?

TIM
[Snort] Yeah, don’t take a job here.

DAISY
Oh… [amused grunt] You’re done, Mr Stoker. Send in Bouchard.

[DOOR OPENS]
[DOOR CLOSES]
DAISY
Elias Bouchard?

ELIAS
Correct.

DAISY
Sit.

[CHAIR SHIFTS]
ELIAS
So, what can I do to help? You want my account? My sworn testimony? My statement?

DAISY
What is…? No. Just a couple of questions.

ELIAS
Of course.

DAISY
I don’t suppose you know how to turn this off?

ELIAS
Oh, leave it running. I’m sure John will want to review the tapes when he gets back.

DAISY
So you don’t think he did it?

ELIAS
Killed a man in cold blood? Certainly not. He doesn’t have the stomach for it.

DAISY
People can surprise you.

ELIAS
In John’s case, I rather hope so.

DAISY
You want him to be a murderer?

ELIAS
Have you had any luck identifying the body yet?

…

Well?

DAISY
I’m the one asking the questions.

ELIAS
Very well, then I suppose this interview is over. Unless you care to arrest me?

DAISY
[Pause] The victim isn’t someone we have on file. Doesn’t match any missing persons. Still a John Doe.

[ELIAS CHUCKLES]
I say something funny?

ELIAS
Nothing. Just remembering an old joke.

DAISY
Right. So. Do you know anything about the current whereabouts of Jonathan Sims? Anywhere he might be staying? Any friends he might have contacted?

ELIAS
I do.

DAISY
…

Well?

ELIAS
I was wondering. Is it worth it? Operating the way that you do?

DAISY
Just answer the question.

ELIAS
Does the lack of oversight make up for the lack of support?

DAISY
What do you know about the current whereabouts of Jonathan Sims?

ELIAS
Everything. I know exactly where he is and who is with him. But I don’t think I’m going to tell you.

DAISY
I can drag this down to the station if you want, you weird little freak. Maybe Sims didn’t do this alone.

ELIAS
Please, Detective Tonner. You don’t want this to happen in the police station any more than I do.

Your superiors, exactly how aware are they of what you’re doing right now?

DAISY
They know enough. They got a call and sent me down here. That’s how it works.

ELIAS
And then they don’t ask any questions, as long as you keep it far away from official police channels.

Except your partner leaving has made you sloppy. No notes, no proper interrogations, no back-up of any sort. You’ve barely collected a scrap of evidence from the scene and made no official record of the dozens of interviews you’ve done with the Institute staff. You haven’t even followed up on any of the other potential suspects or leads, and shown no interest at all in the fate of Sasha James.

All you care about is where John is, because you’ve decided on a course of action, and you’re going to follow it through.

DAISY
…

If you’re right, what’s to stop me kicking your teeth in? No cameras down here, remember. I can always just turn off that little recorder of yours. Smash it up.

ELIAS
Very true. However, you aren’t going to do that, Detective. Because of Calvin Benchley.

DAISY
What?

ELIAS
Calvin Benchley. You recognise the name, don’t you Alice? You see, I know what you did.

DAISY
I… don’t know what you’re talking about.

ELIAS
No? The scar may have faded, but you haven’t forgotten. Did it itch, just a little, when you were burying him?

DAISY
You shut the hell up, or I swear I’ll kill you.

ELIAS
A genuine threat, I’m sure, but right now what you’re really trying to figure out is, if I have any evidence that could make it back your people. It seems impossible, of course, how could I? But you just don’t know. So many impossible things happen in here, in this strange musty place.

DAISY
Shut up!

ELIAS
Here’s what’s going to happen. I’m going to make a statement. Your statement. To prove to you what I know, and because I want John to hear it someday. And when it’s over, you are going to leave. Because if you don’t, I’ll make sure your superiors know all about every nasty little thing you’ve done in the name of peace and order, and I’ll make sure they are subject to the scrutiny they so desperately want to avoid. More importantly, I’ll make sure they know it has all been exposed because of you. Is that clear?

…

I will take that as a yes.

If you’re smart, you’ll go back to the police station and put forward some half-baked cover-up for what happened to your mystery corpse and leave it at that. But I don’t think you are smart, so in many ways I’m excited to find out what you do next.

…

Statement of Alice Tonner, regarding the crimes and death of Calvin Benchley. Statement never given.

DAISY
Don’t.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
Everyone calls me Daisy. I like that because it sounds so gentle, and I’m the only one left who knows about the scar on my back. It doesn’t really look like a daisy, more like a starburst, but it’s what the doctor said when I got it, so that’s how I’ve always seen it. It makes me feel strong, to know that the soft nickname everyone calls me comes from a bloody wound. And I like to feel strong. To be in control.

DAISY
I’m going to kill you, someday.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
When I was eleven, I had a best friend, and his name was Calvin Benchley. We didn’t hang out at school much because his friends said I couldn’t play with them because I was a girl. But every day after getting home we’d go to the nearby park and play. It was small, just a scrap of grass and dirt, but if you hopped the fence to the south you could get into the cemetery, and if you went the other way you got into an old building site. The fence on that side was broken and jagged, but it collapsed enough that it was easy to climb over it, into the half-built structure.

Our parents had forbidden us from playing there. It was collapsing, as well as being a known hang-out for vagrants and druggies. We would take turns daring each other to go in there. That day, I dared him. That’s why it was my fault.

DAISY
Shut up. It wasn’t my fault.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
We had been in the park, when there had been shouting from the building site. Crashes. Violence. Then a long silence.

I dared him to take a look, and when he didn’t want to, I started making fun of him. So in he went. When he didn’t come back, I decided he was just trying to spook me. But after fifteen minutes I decided he wasn’t. I wanted to run away and get my mum, but I was frightened of getting in trouble, so instead I followed Calvin over the fence.

Inside were the first two dead bodies I had ever seen. They looked like they had attacked each other with broken glass. One lay impaled on a broken bottle, still holding the long shard of glass that jutted out of the other’s throat. There was blood everywhere. I felt a rush of fear, and a strange sort of excitement.

DAISY
You can’t know that.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
On a broken staircase above them, stood Calvin staring at me with vacant eyes. Standing behind him I saw something. A hunched figure. I think it was naked. I couldn’t see anything except pale flesh and the vivid red of cuts and injuries. Every inch of its body appeared to be covered in open wounds, but no blood seemed to flow from them.

The thing was utterly still, save for a lipless, scabby mouth, which moved so fast it was almost a blur, silently mouthing words that only Calvin could hear. I know they were for him, because with each movement of its jaw, the thing’s long, pointed black tongue would shoot out and flick itself into his ear. He was completely expressionless as that crooked, cut-up figure whispered to him and flicked at his ear with a barbed tongue.

DAISY
No.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
Then Calvin’s eyes turned to me. Without hesitation or expression he began running, sprinting right at me. I tried to get away, but he was faster, and slammed into me, pushing off my feet and into the rusted fence behind me. There was an explosion of pain in my back, as jagged metal embedded itself in my shoulder, and then it went dark. The last thing I remember before the hospital was the fierce pride on Calvin’s face as he stood there.

No-one believed me about what happened. Calvin said that I had tripped and fallen, and that was the story everyone accepted, but after that he was different. Moody. He started getting into fights. Everyone just assumed he was turning into a teenager, but six children at my school were seriously injured or killed by the time he left for university.

All accidents, of course, nothing that would have pointed to him. But I was always careful around him, the daisy-scar on my back a constant reminder that we were not friends, that he was no longer to be trusted. I told people, but he seemed to feed on the uneasy glances of his classmates, and took great pleasure in scaring them further.

Even after school, I kept an eye on him but I couldn’t believe he had never been arrested. I later got a look at his file and found out that he had been, but they’d never been able to make anything stick. He was smart and careful. We once almost nailed him for aggravated assault, but the victims changed their story and said they were the ones who attacked him.

DAISY
You’ve made your point.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
Six years ago, Calvin Benchley became the first human being I murdered. I beat him round the head as he was coming out of a bar, drove him to my usual spot and shot him five times in the chest with a handgun taken from the evidence lock-up. He didn’t beg for his life. He didn’t say a word. I don’t think he even recognised me. He was harder to get rid of than the vampires, but I managed it.

And nobody asked any questions at all. He was a scumbag, and nobody wants to risk getting a Section 31. He was the first human I dealt with like that, but he certainly wasn’t the last.

ELIAS
Do I need to go on, Detective Tonner?

…

Good. Feel free to see yourself out. If you take any action against myself or this Institute, I will ensure the police become aware of your crimes in a way that cannot ignored or covered up.

I leave the matter of Jonathan Sims up to you, though I will not tell you where he is. I suggest you close the case and move on, but if you find yourself unable to do so, my advice is to kill him quickly. There’s no telling what he might be capable of.

[CHAIR MOVES AND DOOR OPEN.]
DAISY
One day, someone is going to kill you. I really hope it’s me.

[DOOR SLAMS]
ELIAS
Good day, Detective.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
- but she looked like she’d seen a, well, you know…

TIM
So?

MARTIN
So, I’m just saying, she spends all that time in there with Elias, and then leaves like that? Maybe he told her something.

TIM
Or maybe she just hates it here. Like a normal person.

MARTIN
Maybe they said something about Sasha, y’know?

TIM
She’s dead, Martin. Come on! Even you’re not that blind. He got her too.

MARTIN
Don’t you say that. Don’t you dare say that!

TIM
I didn’t. It was that detective. Y-You try talking to her about it?

MARTIN
She didn’t care. Just wanted to know where he was.

TIM
Makes sense.

MARTIN
No. No it doesn’t! Nothing about this makes sense!

I don’t know who that old man was, but John would never hurt Sasha.

TIM
Fine. If it wasn’t him, it must have been that thing we saw.

MARTIN
It was only for a second. And what with that weird finger guy, and the door… I mean, it d-didn’t look like her.

TIM
It did. You know it did. Maybe it ate her. Maybe it was her. Maybe she was always some messed up mutant and we just never noticed. Could have been ‘Michael’. I mean, it basically told us it was working with John. When you disappear and there are more than three different ways you might be dea-

Look, I’m sorry. It’s just this place. [Sigh] Bad things happen and eventually you don’t come back.

MARTIN
T-Tim…

TIM
I’m going to go lie down.

MARTIN
Tim, we’ve got to talk about this!

[DOOR OPENS]
[MARTIN SIGHS]
Huh. [Calling after] Tim? Tim, did you turn the reco-

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GEORGIE
Sure, I just - Why?

ARCHIVIST
I just do. It’s, it’s my job. I record them.

GEORGIE
The job you just lost.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… yes.

GEORGIE
That one you lost so badly it somehow cost you all your stuff?

ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s not quite that simple.

GEORGIE
Well, how am I to know?

ARCHIVIST
Look, Georgie, it’s not… You don’t need to worry. I mean, I’m not, I’m not on drugs or anything.

[GEORGIE LAUGHS DISBELIEVINGLY]
What?

…

I could be on drugs!

GEORGIE
Sure. I just… I know that you get obsessive about stuff, and this right here, I… I’m guessing someone dragged you into something weird, you got hooked in and then it all went wrong.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, that is almost exactly what happened.

GEORGIE
So what you need now is… distance.

ARCHIVIST
You’re right. You’re right. I just… I need to record it.

GEORGIE
No, you don’t. This [paper rustles] is not going to help. It’s part of the problem, isn’t it? Look me in the eyes and tell me that it’s not part of the cult or whatever the hell it was that left you homeless.

…

[Sigh] Come on. What’s it been, four days?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[Softer] Yeah.

GEORGIE
It drops through the letter box and you spend four days… like this. It’s not - It isn’t right, John. You don’t sleep…

ARCHIVIST
I’ve been investigating.

GEORGIE
Hmm.

ARCHIVIST
Please, Georgie, I just need… I need to record it. That’s all. Then it’s done.

GEORGIE
…

Fine. Fine… But you have got to deal with whatever this is.

ARCHIVIST
I will. I, I promise.

GEORGIE
Okay. And just so you know: not keen on your weird stalkers knowing my address. Not keen on that.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[DOOR CLOSES]
Right.

[CLEARS THROAT]
Statement of Chloe Ashburt, regarding a new window display at Fanton’s department store in Hammersmith. Original statement given 19th October 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Hea -

Audio recording by Jonathan Sims.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Working in a large department store can be kind of strange. I’ve had jobs in a couple over the last few years, and talked to people who’ve worked in others, and they all seem to operate slightly differently.

Some treat every department almost as a separate business, with its own dedicated team, some move their workforce around regularly, so they don’t get too comfortable. A few operate almost entirely by leasing out spaces to specific companies, like the individual perfume or makeup counters, so you have an array of small, isolated teams on their little island of product.

I personally prefer the second sort, as it gives me an opportunity to work with a lot of different people and products, and I have a tendency to get… bored if everything gets too samey for too long.

So Fanton’s worked pretty well for me, at least at first. I mean, it’s not like customer service is my passion; the public is a moaning, dreadful bunch, but it was only a part-time job to put me through art school, and my colleagues were mostly a decent lot.

What I did enjoy, and what I tried to be involved in every time it came up, were the displays. I was mainly studying illustration, but I’d always had an interest in design more generally, so when the seasons turned and we changed up the displays in the windows and on the shop floor, I always made a point to try and be on the team helping to set them up. My line manager, Lana, knew this and generally let me do so.

I’m not sure I actually sped things up, to be honest. I’m a bit of perfectionist, and between posing and dressing the mannequins and setting up the props, I think I probably delayed the whole process more than a bit, but everyone was very patient with me as I directed them on how I thought they should assemble the bits I couldn’t easily reach.

I sometimes wonder whether, if I’d left this display alone, or even let Lana do it, things might have turned out differently, but in the end it is what it is, and I’m just going to have to live with it.

This was about a month ago, just as we were starting to put out the autumn displays. These are always my favourites because, aside from the obvious duffel coats and Hallowe’en stuff, the slightly more… unexpected or avant-garde displays tended to be up over the autumn.

The theme for this particular one was ‘Nights at the Circus’. There were acrobat mannequins in hoops, a rather well-made paper maché lion and the centrepiece: a mannequin set up like a ringmistress, dressed in some of the more theatrical clothes that Fanton’s was selling that season.

Topped with a bright red top hat and clutching a whip, it created rather a striking effect; I spent longer than I should have trying to get it absolutely perfect. When it was done, though, I knew it had been worth it. The shiny blank face stared out from below the vivid red, and the hand clutched the whip at such an angle it seemed as though the smooth plastic flesh might leap to life any second with a crack.

There was one other reason I quite enjoyed working at Fanton’s, and that was it gave me ample opportunity to practise my figure drawing. Because of my classes I tended to end up working the later shifts, and Lana would usually let me stay past closing time, where I would spend hours drawing and redrawing each static figure - the different poses and costumes and displays gave me fantastic practise. It was almost meditative. I’ll always be grateful to Lana for letting my do that - a lot of the higher-ups were kind of arseholes about it, hiding behind faux-concern that “my condition made closing up on my own potentially dangerous”, but Lana, to her credit, ignored them and we never had an issue. Well, not that sort of issue, at least.

So obviously, once the ‘Nights at the Circus’ display went up, I spent several evenings drawing and redrawing it, copying every curve of the almost featureless face, the line of the limbs, the poise of the feet, over and over until I got it right. So when I came in one day to find that the ringmistress mannequin had been replaced, I knew instantly. It was wearing the same clothes, certainly, and was posed the same way, but I could see the difference.

If I hadn’t known it in such detail, I never would have noticed. Certainly no-one else mentioned it, and when I asked Lana if there’d been a change, she just gave me a blank look. I was sure, though. The arms were just a little bit longer, the neck ever-so-slightly twisted,and the face, where before there had just been the faintest hint of a nose and a slight smile, was almost completely blank, save for a small patch of broken plastic near its forehead.

Sometime after I had left the previous night, someone must have snuck in, undressed and removed the mannequin already there, and put the clothes on this new one before replacing it in the exact same position. It didn’t make any sense.

I thought about trying to bring more attention to it, but nothing had been stolen, and the changes were so small that, even if I could convince them, what were they going to do about it? So I kept quiet. I was working in the soft furnishings department that week, and the mannequin was down in Womenswear, so I didn’t see it that much. Even so, any time I had an excuse to go past it, I made sure I did. There was something about this new one, something in the way it didn’t quite fit with all the other figures on display, the way it held the whip in cruel, sharp fingers. And the way its head never moved, but somehow I couldn’t shake the feeling that it was watching me right back.

Disconcerting as it was, there wasn’t really anything I could do about it, and after a few days I was starting to get used to the replacement. I had almost convinced myself I was overreacting, if not actually mistaken, when I was called in to Lana’s office, just as I got into work.

Her expression was stern, and she told me to close the door behind me when I came in. She asked me if I’d stayed late the night before, after closing time, and I told her yes I had. I started to talk about what I’d been drawing, but she held up her hand to stop me. She asked if I had done anything other than that, whether I had tried out “any other artistic pursuits”. I was confused and told her as much, and she asked me if I’d seen anyone else there last night and I said no I hadn’t. Then she asked if I’d messed with any of the displays and once again I said no.

She sighed, and I couldn’t tell whether it was in relief or exasperation, but she opened her desk drawer and retrieved some printouts. They were photos of one of the autumn displays. I had noticed on the way it, when I’d gone past that particular window, which had previously been showing off raincoats, I believe, it had been empty. In the picture, however, it was not.

The raincoat mannequin had, it seemed, been… disassembled, then rebuilt into a tangled bunch of limbs and joints. The torso was upside down and the two arms jutted out from the front and back of the pelvis, bending up to hold the mannequin’s head aloft. It had been dressed in an assortment of lurid red and purple shirts from our pyjama range, and someone had clearly stolen some paints from the craft department and daubed a colourful, smiling face on top of the blank space that had previously been there. They had finished it with a red pompom crudely glued onto the top of the head. The effect was alarming and put me in mind of a clown.

I looked up to see Lana’s eyes staring into me, acutely scrutinizing my reaction. The confusion and mild horror on my face seemed to put her a little bit at ease, but she was still a long way from relaxed. I told her it wasn’t me, that I had no idea who would have done it or why, that I definitely didn’t see or hear anything out of the ordinary, all the standard excuses. She nodded, though it was clear nothing I said was really helping the situation. Finally, I asked about CCTV, and she shook her head. There hadn’t been any focused on the vandalised display, and whoever had done it had clearly known enough about the camera placements to avoid them. Another reason, apparently, they suspected it was done by someone who worked there.

We went back and forth for about ten minutes, until at last she said she believed me, and wouldn’t pursue disciplinary action, but without any other credible explanation there was no way she could keep letting me stay behind alone. Not least because, technically, she shouldn’t even have been doing it in the first place. I was upset, of course, but I also realised I was getting off comparatively lightly, so I didn’t make a fuss.

The next couple of weeks were difficult. Drawing the displays in the shop had helped me centre myself, gave me some positive associations with the place. Without it, Fanton’s was just where I worked. And more importantly, somewhere I constantly had to deal with the public, all their rudeness and stupidity and fake pity. To be honest, I was finding it harder and harder to keep my patience.

There was something else, though. Without being able to rely on me to close up, Lana had assigned it on a rota to the others in our team. Nobody really wanted the job, and a few of them moaned to me privately, but they didn’t exactly have a say in the matter. But as the days went by I noticed that some of my colleagues were getting nervous, jumping at little noises and glancing over their shoulder. It always seemed to be the person who’d been closing up the night before. And through it all that ringmistress stood there, malicious and unmoving, brandishing her whip ready to strike.

Finally it happened. Last Wednesday, Lana couldn’t find anyone else to do the last shift, Jan had a doctor’s appointment, Liam had a family emergency… you get the idea. Lana was going to have to do it herself. I’d been working very hard over the days prior to get back in her good graces, and I managed to convince her to let me do the last shift with her, and stick around to do some drawing while she locked up, promising that I’d be out of the door as soon as she was. She reluctantly agreed.

So Wednesday rolled around, and the day went very much as normal, maybe a bit quieter than usual, but not so you’d notice. There was a slight… something in the air though, an anticipation. I thought at the time it was me, since I’d decided to use this opportunity to try and exorcise some of the feelings of unease and finally draw the mannequin that was making me so uncomfortable. But now I don’t think I had anything to do with it at all.

Everything was closed up, everyone else had left. It was just me and Lana. And she was making the final checks to lock up. I ran to the changing rooms and grabbed the small bag from my locker that contained my pencils, inks and paper, and then hurried back and over to the womenswear department. I couldn’t hear Lana anywhere, which is strange as she usually provided something of a running commentary, but I didn’t really notice.

Then I rounded the corner of one of the aisles and stopped dead: the mannequin was gone. The pedestal where the ‘Nights at the Circus’ display had stood was empty, save for a torn pile of paper maché and the headless figure of a plastic acrobat.

I stood there, my mouth hanging open, as I tried to figure out what was going on. Had Lana done this? Was this all some elaborate ploy to frame me for… something, vandalism? That didn’t make any sense. The store around me was still and silent, and it felt as if all I could do was wait for something to happen. And sure enough, after a minute or two, I heard Lana’s voice calling to me.

Except it didn’t sound quite right. There was a strangled, hoarse quality to it, like the words were being pushed out against her will. I was terrified of what I would see when I reached her, but my only other option was to run, and if she was in trouble, I’d never forgive myself. I pulled out my phone and pressed 999, my thumb hovering over the call button as I approached the storeroom where Lana’s voice was coming from. The door’s small window was too high, so I just had to push it open. It was so heavy against my shaking hands.

The room was dark on the other side. I reached up to turn on the lights, but the switch flipped uselessly back and forth. The light from the door illuminated a few boxes of leggings, but I couldn’t bring myself to go any further in. Just beyond the light from the door I could see a figure, tall and thin. It could have been Lana, but I wasn’t sure.

At least until it began to move. Its steps were jerky and stiff, arms snapping out and back as it moved towards me step by step. I felt my own limbs seize up at the sight, and my phone slipped uselessly from my hand. The faceless figure loomed over me, and when it bent down, the finger it placed upon my lips was cold, hard plastic.

“Shhhhh…” it said. Though it had no mouth to form the sound.

The next thing I remember is the police. I must have pressed dial before I dropped my phone. They found what was left of Lana further into the storeroom. I was questioned for a while, but much to the dismay of tabloid headlines everywhere, it became clear quite quickly that there was no way I could have done it. The CCTV showed me almost constantly during the period Lana would have been killed, and the only blood on me was a single, neat line across my lip.

Of course, that’s not to say the police believed my version of events either. They are currently working on the theory that a killer had been stalking the store for a while, and finally chose that night to strike, but they didn’t expect me to still be there, and fled when it was clear I’d called the police. But I know. I remember. Sometimes I wake up in the night, and I can taste the blood and plastic of that stiff and lifeless hand.

Statement ends.

ARCHIVIST
As I have discovered in the few days since this statement arrived, it is far harder to conduct a thorough investigation without the resources of the Institute or the… expertise of my assistants. I have located a few stories about the death of Lana Billings, found… strangled and partially skinned in the storage of Fanton’s department store, but the rather lurid newspaper coverage is as much as I could find, and it gives no further information of use.

Well, that’s not quite true. The Express illustrates their story with a picture of the service entrance to Fanton’s, the entrance the killer is assumed to have used to access the storeroom. I do not know whether this picture was taken before or after the crime, or whether it’s a stock photo, but I cannot help but notice, parked just at the edge, is an off-white delivery van. The resolution is not high enough to make out the name on the side, but I’m not sure I need to.

I’ve had little luck in tracking down Ms. Ashburt herself. I managed to find a legal transcript from 2011 regarding a wrongful dismissal case she brought against a previous employer, the firing she claimed as being motivated by her dwarfism, but none of the parties involved had any up-to-date information on her. Something of a dead end.

There are some connections here, though what they might mean I… I just don’t know. Circuses, skin, things just a few degrees off from human. The mannequin, I would assume, has some connection to this ‘Stranger’ being. The same one we’ve… had such problems with already.

Breekon and Hope… might also be connected to it. I recall they made a delivery to a taxidermy shop in a previous statement, I think, which brings us back to skin. Not to mention more than one witness has described them as… as uncanny, not quite seeming like real people. Until I am more certain of the identities of the other powers out there, I am going to assume Breekon and Hope are at least working with, if not part of, the Stranger.

Of course, the biggest mystery to this statement is who sent it to me. And why? There’s no return address and, something I’m glad Georgie didn’t spot, no postmark. Which means it was delivered by hand. Does someone from the Institute know where I am, or is it someone else?

And why this statement? It links in with a lot of what I’m already looking into, but if there are any revelations in it, I can’t find them. Or is it a warning? Emphasising that if I simply wait and see what happens, if I don’t act on what I know, then someone I care about may pay the price. If that’s the case, then I think… message received. Hiding won’t bring any answers, and it won’t stop whatever’s going on. I’m going to keep looking into where this statement came from, but it wasn’t sent in vain. [Sigh] I’ve got work to do.

Recording ends.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Right. Er, Martin Blackwood, Archival Assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number… 9900112, statement of Adrian Weiss, given December 1st 1990.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
When I was about ten or eleven, my parents moved us from Ipswich out to a small village in Suffolk called Cratfield. I’d tell you what the nearest notable town was, but there really wasn’t one. Nothing much near us at all. It was open and rural and, the way I saw it, absolutely filthy. I was used to the dirt and grime of a city, so all that manure and rot that gave the countryside it’s particular odour made me feel like I could never quite get clean.

Still, I was happy enough to be living there. My school in Ipswich had been very difficult, for reasons I’d rather not discuss, and I had no friends to speak of that I was leaving behind. For all the isolation and muck out there, I still felt like I appreciated the fresh start.

The village kids were an insular lot, but they accepted me much quicker than I had expected. I guess they couldn’t really be picky - a place that small, you end up hanging out with all sorts of kids that you wouldn’t normally look twice at.

That’s how I met Gordon. Gordon Goodman. He never really felt like he fit the name. He was about fourteen, a bit older than most of the other kids by a couple of years, but still one of the smallest, barely five foot two and scrawny as anything. His hair fell over his eyes, and you always had to ask him to repeat himself, because whenever he started talking it was so quiet that you’d miss the first part. I liked him, though. He wasn’t someone who’d judge you; he just took everything in stride.

Now, near the edge of Cratfield, at least as much as it had a clear edge, was a field of about three acres that pretty much everyone avoided. It wasn’t the sort of place that gets named on a map, so everyone around just called it ‘The Dump’, or occasionally ‘Maggie’s Dump’ on account of an old woman called Margaret Carnegie, who owned the place and lived in small bungalow right in the middle of it. Now Maggie was a classic recluse: hardly anyone had seen her for years, and those that had would only spot her in and around her little house, carefully piling up newspapers or stacking bottles.

Maggie was a hoarder, you see. No-one really knew where she got most of it, you didn’t get much home delivery in those days, but she seemed to have a never-ending supply of food wrappers and magazines and old clothes. At some point she’d clearly run out of space in her bungalow, and started to store stuff outside. She never weighed it down or tied it up or anything, so when the wind picked up it got spread all over the place, and so, gradually, the area became Maggie’s dump.

Cratfield was a good ways away from the nearest actual rubbish tip, so it wasn’t long before local families started to use it as well. Anything too big for normal collection got thrown out there: fridges, sofas, broken electrics. By the time I moved there, the area around Old Maggie’s house was a covered in junk, with stained white, broken appliances, dotted all over like blisters on grimy skin.

I learned all this from the other kids when they made fun of Gordon, who they called Maggie’s ‘little pet’ or sometimes her ‘rat butler’. You see, he was the one who delivered her food. I’ve no idea why his parents had taken on the responsibility of providing for her, she was probably a distant relation of some sort, but it was Gordon’s job to bring her groceries every few days, winding his way through the filth that surrounded her isolated home.

Now Old Maggie fascinated me. Or rather, the stories about her did, because obviously there were stories. The two most common were that she was a witch, or that she’d killed her husband and chopped him up, keeping the land as messy as possible so nobody would think to dig him up. I never met anyone in town who remembered her actually having a husband, or course, but there were plenty of kids who claimed to have seen her creeping past their houses at night, or staring into their windows. Davey Morgan even said that she’d chased him through the woods with a knife, but we all knew he was a liar. Even so, the stories terrified me, and I loved them.

I never wanted to actually meet Maggie. I was far too scared of her for that. But, I used to love walking with Gordon while he took groceries to her. I’d see how close to her house I could get before I got spooked and ran home. I used the bigger bits of rubbish as markers. After a few weeks I could always make it past the broken red sofa, and the bravest I got was the washing machine without a drum, all the while picking my way past sodden newspaper and rusted cans.

Gordon, for his part, never seemed to mind. I reckon he was thankful for the company, as he would chat away softly to me as we walked, either ignoring or oblivious to my fear.

Whenever I ran back to the fencepost that marked the start of Maggie’s Dump, and was therefore, in my mind, safe, I would turn back to watch as Gordon reached the bungalow. He’d press the little doorbell, and stand there waiting as the door swung open. I could see a figure stood there: long, white hair and a dressing gown the colour of rust. They would lead Gordon inside, and the door would shut behind them. I would never see him come back out.

I tried to convince myself he just needed to help her with chores, but deep down I knew she was doing something dreadful to him. My mind would conjure grotesque images of knives and bubbling cauldrons full of rotting food, and I’d generally scare myself so badly that I never ended up waiting for more than ten minutes.

Which, thinking about it now, is probably why I didn’t see him come out. But, he was always at school the next day, alive and unharmed. He’d just smile when I asked him what he did in there. He’d shrug and say she just wanted to ask him to stack stuff, but on those days I would notice that his fingernails were always stained, and slightly caked in dirt.

Then, one day in early October, Gordon didn’t show up at school the next day. I’d walked with him the evening before, but I hadn’t even made it to the washing machine. I’d seen him go inside, and now he was gone. Nobody seemed bothered, and one teacher said his parents had called him in sick, but I was certain: this time Old Maggie hadn’t let him go.

I ran over to his house as soon as school finished, and knocked on the door. His father answered, and when I asked him where Gordon was, he told me he was up in his room with a fever. I asked to see him, but was told very firmly that he was asleep. I looked Gordon’s dad in the eyes as he said this, and I knew that he was lying to me. If anyone was going to save him from Maggie’s knife, it was going to have to be me.

The sun had almost set by the time I reached The Dump, and the bungalow seemed much taller, silhouetted as it was against the darkening purple sky, surrounded by the filthy, white corpses of unwanted electricals. But that wasn’t right. Maggie wanted them. Maggie didn’t want anything to be lost. She wanted them to stay, and rot.

You know, for all the fear Maggie inspired in me, I was completely unprepared to be right about her. Not the knife, I got the knife wrong, but I do think that she was a witch. In the years since then I’ve tried very hard to convince myself that what I saw that night was a dream or a false memory or something, but… it wasn’t.

I was past the washing machine before I’d even registered what I was doing, and when I realised where I was, I felt my legs begin to seize up. The lights in the house were on, dim through the filthy windows, and they cast a diseased yellow glow that refracted off a pile of clear glass bottles stacked outside. I don’t know how I’d never noticed the smell of that place before, but now the stench of hit me like a wave. I gagged, and fell to my knees, not wanting to put my hands anywhere on the litter-covered ground.

As I looked around desperately for a patch of actual grass which I could use to support myself, my eyes fell on something that seemed out of place: A pristine, unopened can of baked beans. The absurdity of it overcame my fear for just a second, and I steadied myself enough to get a closer look.

It stood upright, about two feet from a fallen grocery bag. One of the bags that Gordon always brought when he went to see Old Maggie. Behind it was another bag, and another, and another, until I saw, propped up against the back of the house, dozens, if not hundreds, of shopping bags. Some seemed to be almost new, while others had clearly been there for months. And all of them were full to the brim with unopened food.

I found myself reaching for the tin. I just wanted to touch it, to feel something clean and real to make sure I was still in the world. But as my fingers brushed against it, the can began to shake violently. The metal bent and warped, like something inside was growing rapidly, bursting to be free. I fell backwards, now fully panicked, and started to crawl away as quickly as I could. The throbbing tin was nowhere to be seen now, but as I tried to get away, I felt the ground give way beneath my hand, and it was sucked down, up to the elbow in clinging muck.

Somehow, I managed to choke down a scream, and pulled my arm free, ripping soil and dead grass out in clumps. It was covered in a wriggling mass of earthworms, squeezing and pressing their slimy bodies against my skin. Still, I didn’t scream, as I shook my arm wildly, flinging them away from me. My head was swimming, searching for something I could focus on, something normal, if only for a second.

What I saw instead was Gordon’s face, staring at me from the mud, from the hole I had torn in the ground. His eyes were vacant, and his skin was marked and discoloured. Then I realised with a start that it was a mask, old newspaper and wet cardboard formed into a perfect recreation of my friend. A fleshy knot of worms slithered through the hole of its mouth. And then, all at once, my mind snapped back to Gordon’s plight, to why I was there in that awful place.

The light was still shining through the grime of the bungalow windows, as I gingerly placed my foot on a pile of old newspapers and lifted myself up to get a look inside. My fingers gripped the edges of a windowpane slick with some sort of dark oil. It took a moment for my eyes to focus on the figures inside, and even then they were blurred by the slime-encrusted glass.

I could see Gordon, sat in a thick, threadbare armchair, motionless. Bent over him was the thin, hunched form of Old Maggie. Tiny shapes moved over my friend’s still form, as her thin hands smoothed pieces of ancient, yellowed paper over his face. Her dressing gown was wet, and her wrinkled skin glistened with a pale fluid that dripped from her fingers as she smoothed the strips in place. I could hear her singing a soft, crooning song, and as her voice got louder the things crawling over Gordon got faster and more agitated.

Then my foot slipped, and a glass bottle fell from its pile. It wasn’t loud. It didn’t even break. But that was all the excuse I needed to run. I don’t know if she heard it, the mere idea that she might see me was enough to send me sprinting all the way back home to safety. When my mum saw the state of my clothes, she sent me to bed without dinner, which was fine by me. I crawled under the covers and lay there until sleep finally came.

Gordon was fine. He was in school the next day like nothing had happened, and we never spoke about it. He stopped delivering to Old Maggie, though. At least, I think he did. I lost touch with him about a year later, when my family moved again, this time to Liverpool. And I tried to convince myself that it had all been a dream.

I’d almost managed it, as well, until I found myself in Ipswich last month on business. My drive home took me near to Cratfield, so I decided to pass through for old time’s sake. I stopped at the White Hart for a coffee, and ended up chatting with some locals.

We talked about nothing for an hour or so, until someone mentioned offhand about having to swing by the dump with their old mattress. I asked him when Cratfield had gotten a dump, and he explained it was actually just a patch of old waste ground where folk tossed their rubbish.

Did it have a name, I asked, and he nodded, casually, like he had no idea that what he was saying mattered in the least. Sure, he told me, it was named for the weird recluse who owned the place. They called it “Gordie’s Dump”.

Statement ends.

MARTIN
[RAGGED BREATHING AS MARTIN REGAINS HIS

COMPOSURE]

Well, I, er… I think that was okay. Er, yeah. To anyone listening, sorry about the change of tone.

John, the, uh, Head Archivist is… absent, so I’ll be trying to fill in as best as I can. Um. Maybe Tim as well, if he… if he feels like it. It, It doesn’t matter, I suppose. Just as long as it gets done.

Erm, I fol - We followed up on the address provided by Adrian Weiss, and… it… is a pretty unpleasant piece of land, owned by Gordon Goodman. Records show he was bequeathed it by the last owner, Miss Margaret Carnegie, upon her death in 1982. Er, in fact he was her sole beneficiary, it looks like.

Miss Carnegie’s death was listed as ‘natural causes’, most likely pneumonia, but it was apparently hard to be sure given the state of her body. Her lungs seemed to be full of newspaper pulp, and her back and sides covered in… you see, well, the report lists them as “cancerous growths”, but the description… I mean, I mean, they sound more like insect legs. It also describes them as having “significant post-mortem autonomous motor function”, which I’m guessing means they were somehow still moving.

Gordon Goodman is on record as the one who identified her body, and the corpse went missing the following night. Which leads me to wonder if maybe he didn’t want to let her go, either. I mean… maybe he, um…

Oh, er, h-hold on.

[Distant] Er, excuse me? Excuse me!

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Oh, yes, hello?

MARTIN
This is… The Archives aren’t actually open to the public.

MELANIE
Er, I know. There, there wasn’t anyone on the door, though. I’m… I’m looking for the Archivist?

MARTIN
Ah. You’re Miss, er… Richardson?

MELANIE
King.

MARTIN
King! Yes. Right.

MELANIE
Melanie is fine. Is he here?

MARTIN
Are, are… Oh, are you alright?

MELANIE
Oh, um, no. Not really. Got shot. Sort of. In India.

MARTIN
What?

MELANIE
Oh, it’s, it’s mostly fine now. I can walk on it, at least… It’s what I wanted to talk to John about.

MARTIN
That’s… not really… I mean, I guess I could take your statement?

MELANIE
Oh. Er. I suppose. You mean, you mean now?

Right.

[DOOR CLOSES]
Um, well… I… I flew out and I’ve been, well, that is, before that I was, I was looking at some books. Er, there were history books that were talking… Look, are you sure I can’t just talk to John? You know, Jonathan Sims? He still works here, right?

MARTIN
Er, that’s actually quite a good question.

MELANIE
Oh, okay. Look, I’m sorry, I’ve… I’ve obviously missed something here. What’s going on?

MARTIN
[Long sigh] John’s missing. And they… they think he killed someone.

MELANIE
[Short laugh] What, he finally snapped, did he? Or did he accidentally bore them to death?

MARTIN
I’m serious.

MELANIE
Oh. Oh right.

So, who’d he kill?

MARTIN
He didn’t! It’s just everyone -

Look, it was, it was an old man. No-one here knows him, and the police still can’t actually identify the body, so…

MELANIE
So… what? He’s supposed to have suddenly just murdered some stranger?

MARTIN
With a pipe.

MELANIE
What, like burned him to death, or…?

MARTIN
A metal pipe.

MELANIE
Oh! Sorry, I just pictured him with like a smoking… y’know? I mean, that, that doesn’t sound like him, does it? I’ve only met him a couple of times, but beating an old man to death with a pipe seems kind of out of character.

MARTIN
Right? But everyone just seems totally convinced he did it. I mean, they think he did something to Sasha too.

MELANIE
Jesus. Which one?

MARTIN
Oh, uh, she was, um, another one of the research assistants, like me and Tim.

MELANIE
Yes, I know that, I meant-

MARTIN
She vanished around the same time as the murder, I think.

MELANIE
Oh, you know what, I am not doing this again.

MARTIN
You sure you’re alright?

MELANIE
Yes! I just got… God, I’m kind of at the end, you know?

MARTIN
The end of what?

MELANIE
Everything. Friends, clues, savings. Everything. Options. There’s nowhere left for me to go. I don’t know why, but… I just, I just felt that perhaps coming here might help. And talking things out with John. I mean, I mean he’s awful, but at least he listens, you know?

MARTIN
Yeah. I’m… sorry. Um, is there anything that I could, like, maybe do for you?

[DOOR OPENS]
ELIAS
[Distant] A friend of yours?

MARTIN
Oh, er, it’s okay. She’s, um, er, she’s giving a statement.

ELIAS
[Coming closer] I see. Well, good to meet you.

Elias Bouchard, I run the Institute.

MELANIE
Melanie King.

ELIAS
Ah, you’re not the Melanie King who runs Ghost Hunt UK, surely?

MELANIE
Used to.

ELIAS
Ah, of course. My apologies.

MARTIN
[Disbelievingly] You used to watch it?

ELIAS
I’m sorry to hear it’s no longer running. Your techniques were rudimentary, but you showed surprising promise. On occasion.

MELANIE
Thank you… I think.

MARTIN
[Spluttering] Melanie was actually just leaving. Erm, I think we were done.

MELANIE
Uh, yes… yes.

ELIAS
One moment, Miss King. Martin has filled you in on recent events, I believe?

MELANIE
I mean, a, a bit.

MARTIN
Not everything.

ELIAS
Then you are aware there is currently a vacancy for an archival assistant?

MELANIE
Yes. And an archivist.

ELIAS
Oh, I don’t think we need to worry about that just yet. But the assistant role…

MELANIE
Hang on, are you offering me a job?

MARTIN
What?

ELIAS
You have some experience in the field, I believe.

MELANIE
Well, yes, but…

MARTIN
I mean, that doesn’t actually, er, make her qualified.

ELIAS
[Pointedly] Formal qualifications aren’t everything, Martin.

Do you want the job, Melanie?

MELANIE
Oh… Um, I… Well, it’s, it’s rather sudden, but…

er, I mean, sure. Yes. Yes, I do.

MARTIN
Melanie, I’m really not sure that you actually want to-

ELIAS
Problem, Martin?

MARTIN
No, er, no, no, I-I guess not.

ELIAS
Good. Well, if you want to come on up to my office and we’ll have a proper interview. Hopefully get all the paperwork signed.

MELANIE
Lead the way.

[FOOTSTEPS HEAD AWAY]
MARTIN
[Non-verbal sounds of frustration] Great!

Great.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of an unknown figure, regarding an encounter that… may or may not have happened in their home. Date of original statement unclear, though paper quality likely puts it at between twenty and thirty years ago. Recording by Jonathan Sims… in his personal investigative capacity.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to put my words to you, and apologies for any problems that… may arise from this conversation. I will try to restrain it.

Are you familiar with the work of the poet William Hughes Mearns? I assume not. Few people are, even now I’m not completely sure that’s how you pronounce his name, having only ever seen it written down. There is one poem, however, I think you will be familiar with. It goes thus:

As I was going up the stair

I met a man who wasn’t there!

He wasn’t there again today,

Oh how I wish he’d go away!

When I came home last night at three,

The man was waiting there for me

But when I looked around the hall,

I couldn’t see him there at all!

Go away, go away, don’t you come back any more!

Go away, go away, and please don’t slam the door…

Last night I saw upon the stair,

A little man who wasn’t there,

He wasn’t there again today

Oh, how I wish he’d go away…

It’s called Antigonish, named after a town in Nova Scotia, home to the ghost of an old man who supposedly haunted the staircases of one of the grander homes. For the longest time I misread the title, and was convinced the poem was called ‘Antagonish’. I thought it was a rather clever play on the word ‘antagonist’, owing to the ambiguous nature of the subject.

I was disappointed, then, to discover it was simply a reference to a haunting. By tying it to a real place and a known story, the strange, disconcerting nonsense at the heart of it was lost. Because nonsense is what it is. It is playfully impossible. He cannot be not there. But he is. He was. And so am I.

I didn’t meet him on the staircase as well. The carpet didn’t bend under the weight of his soft, round body, and I distinctly recall the absence of a creak as his foot pressed on the loose board of the empty fifth step. He laughed, but there was no humour it, because… then it would have had to break the silence. In the poem, I had always imagined a translucent figure, absent in life and body, but visible. But I couldn’t see this man. Obviously I couldn’t. I couldn’t see him or hear him or speak to him. Because… there was nobody there. The staircase was empty, as he stretched his arm to gesture me closer.

My memory is not what it was. Some days it seems that damn poem is all I can remember. I know I had a family. I know I had a house. Was it in Antigonish? No, that’s absurd. The man I didn’t meet had nothing to do with the poem, just a, a coincidence. But I’m not sure… what else I know now; I’m not sure where else I know now. And I’m unsure where I’ve ever been. I had a home. A house. I know it had at least two floors, because there were stairs. The stairs were real. He wasn’t there, but the stairs were. At least to begin with.

It was dark when I didn’t see him, and I was about to walk up to bed. I remember being cold, damp. Had it been raining? No, the water was still. I wanted to be dry, to be warm in my bed. And I couldn’t, because in spite of his own absence, this man blocked the stairs. I think I would have asked others to tell me what or who they might or might not have seen, if that had been an option, and I didn’t, so I must have lived alone. I don’t know why the lights were off, but the moon was bright and cast stark shadows upon the empty floor where this figure stood.

For obvious reasons I can’t describe him. I can barely describe his absence. I could try to say that his… hypothesis was tall and wide. Conceptually, he could have had arms that stretched away from a soft-looking torso, with stubby fingers that did not grip the banisters tight enough to splinter. If he had had a face, it would have been unremarkable, with a small, plump mouth that failed to quite turn into a smile.

He didn’t speak, so I couldn’t hear his offer to join him on the staircase. But I accepted. I don’t know if I was just desperate to try and get up and into my bed, or if I was… generally curious as to what this man had to offer me, when he didn’t even have enough wherewithal to exist. So I placed my foot on the first step and I began to walk. If he’d been there it might have been hard to get past his bulk, but as it was I continued up without any problems.

The staircase in my house was not long, and it wasn’t steep, and it went straight up to the landing with only a single right angle turn. It was not a spiral staircase, so after walking down that corkscrew for almost a half hour, I knew it couldn’t be mine. The man hadn’t come with me, of course, so I wasn’t able to ask how it was he could always stay three steps in front of me without once moving his legs.

I walked and I walked. And then I didn’t walk, and that got me moving much faster. The walls didn’t look like my house, because there weren’t any, so it was hard to tell what they did look like. Eventually I must have reached the end, because I woke up the next morning in my bed, and my bed was at the end of the staircase that was there, so I assume it was also at the end of the one that wasn’t.

The next few days are hard for me to remember, because they happened, and genuine recollections slip through my mind like rippling glass. But the man didn’t come back. He didn’t come back every night. He didn’t come back until I made… a horrid mistake. I called to him. I stood on the landing and shouted at him to go away. I asked him if he was there. I demanded he show himself. All utterly impossible, of course. I was shouting at nobody but myself, and so it was into my own mind that my curses and pleas burrowed and nested. As he wasn’t there, I have no way of telling how many teeth were on show when he smiled at me.

After that, it became hard to tell where he failed to begin, and easier to tell where I ended. People would forget me, but that was alright, because only real people care about who remembers them. And I was no longer among their number. I would have whole days where I failed to exist, a feeling so entirely alien that I am glad I had no stomach from which to throw up. And as I existed less and less, the man ceased to exist less and less… until… I remember the first time he was really in my house, and I wished for nothing more than that I had hands with which to strangle him.

My parents were the worst. They came for dinner once, shortly after I had called to him. They looked so confused when I served them their meal, and the conversations would die after only a few words. My mother’s eyes were bloodshot, and I could see them unfocus when they tried to look at me. She dabbed a napkin at her mouth and asked me where her son was. I asked her what his name had been. She didn’t know. She dabbed her mouth again and the napkin came away bloody.

My father said nothing, as I had taken him up the stairs an hour before, and he now lay dead in his chair, his heart unsuited for the expedition. He had sworn at me as he tried to climb them to the top, telling me I was no son of his, and I was trying to agree with him, but if I could have done so, then he would have been wrong. Eventually, after almost an hour descending the spiral, he keeled over in his seat and lay lifeless. My mother got abruptly to her feet, and told my father that they were leaving. My father got to his feet, and silently followed her out. I never saw either of them again.

Eventually, the man who had never set foot upon my staircase became real enough to have done this to me. He existed so thoroughly that he was finally able to laugh at the joy of being. He looked around for me, but of course I wasn’t there, and in my absence I watched the realisation on his face that, in reality, whoever he was, he had died decades before. And he was now in reality. He tried to scream, but his throat decomposed around the noise, cutting it short with a slough of rotten flesh and collapsing, brittle bone. And as I stared from the empty spiral staircase, I wanted to laugh right back at him. But I couldn’t, because I just wasn’t there.

I haven’t been here for a long time now. Time is difficult. I try to take people up the staircase. Sometimes they make it, sometimes they do not. None of them have called out to me, though. Not like I once called out to an empty house. Most staircases are easy for me to not be on, but this one here took effort. I tried to be just real enough to talk to you. I wanted to share. I, I don’t want to take you up the spiral staircase, so you should try to leave. I don’t want to, but it’s my nature now, and you can’t fight what you are. Or even what you aren’t.

As I was going up the stair,

I was a man who wasn’t there.

I wasn’t there again today.

Oh, how I wish I’d go away.

Statement ends.

ARCHIVIST
There are many aspects of this statement that I desperately want more information on, but I have no real way to do so. There are some short pieces of correspondence in the file, addressed to Gertrude, from someone called Eric Delano, confirming that while he typed out this statement, he has no memory of doing so, and requesting some sick leave to address persistent migraines he has developed. There’s no supplementary research because… what do you research? A nonsense poem from 1922?

No, I am more interested, as before, with who is sending me these statements, and why this one, especially as the message, if indeed there is one, seems to contradict the last one. If the… ‘moral’, shall we say, of Ms. Ashburt’s statement was that ignoring the horrors stalking you just makes them more dangerous, then surely the message of this one is that confronting them directly is even more so. I suppose that leaves skulking around the periphery. Which is what I was already doing!

There is, of course, a different reading, which is that this is a targeted warning about trusting Michael, given the obvious parallels: swap out stairways for corridors and spirals for fractals, and there you go. The Nowhere Man thing is new, though. What was it Leitner said about the Spiral? It deals with fooling your senses, drawing your mind into difficult paths, making you doubt the reality you live in.

Well, if this is a warning about Michael, then it is, as before, somewhat superfluous. If I never see him - if I never see it again, it’s too soon.

Maybe that’s it. It. Maybe whoever sent this wants me to consider how many of these creatures used to be people. How many seem to have taken the mantle from the ones that came before them, and how none of them have been able to overcome their new natures. How most of them don’t even seem to think like people anymore. Given that there is every possibility I’ve taken one of these mantles myself, this is not an interpretation I’m keen on.

Or it could be someone in the Archives randomly sending me statements, with no curation, rhyme or reason. Assuming they come from the Archives. They’re marked as Institute statements, but I have no idea who’s sending them. I feel like I’ve been seeing a lot of police cars about, maybe… no, that’s absurd. Maybe Leitner stole a lot of statements and had a, a sort of dead man’s switch to… [sigh] Occam’s Razor. For now, it makes sense to assume they’re coming from the Institute, and they’re only coming one at a time, so I will work on the belief that they are some way curated. So the current questions are who and why.

I feel bad staying put, like… like I might be placing Georgie in danger, but I don’t have anywhere else to go at the moment, and if the increased police presence isn’t just in my head, then I don’t -

[DOOR OPENS]
GEORGIE
Right, I’m out tonight, ok? There should be some stuff in the freezer if you… Oh.

ARCHIVIST
I was just, uh…

GEORGIE
You didn’t say we got another one.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t want to worry you.

GEORGIE
I knew it was something. You’ve been weird all day.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, I… I don’t know.

GEORGIE
Yeah. Well, we can talk about it later. I need to head out.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. Yeah, y… you look great. What’s the occasion?

GEORGIE
I have a date.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh! Do you need me to get out of the house for the night?

GEORGIE
[Laughs] Oh, no. Trust me, nothing’s happening tonight.

ARCHIVIST
Oh… How are you so sure?

GEORGIE
Check out his profile.

ARCHIVIST
…

Good lord.

GEORGIE
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, he does know what a book is, right?

GEORGIE
Unclear. He climbs mountains, though.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I got that. “Face to face with your own mortality on the frozen peaks, staring death in the face and saying ‘Not today, dude.’” The man’s a poet. And… why are you going out with him again?

GEORGIE
He, uh… he likes Hungarian food. And there’s place just opened.

ARCHIVIST
You’re serious? You’re going on a date with… the Dullard of Skull Mountain, just so you have an excuse to eat a shopska salad?

GEORGIE
I need my sheep’s cheese, John. No one else will go with me. You hate Hungarian food. Jeff says it tastes too “Soviet”, apparently, whatever that means. Melanie says it’s too salty. Everyone I know has bad taste in food.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t hate Hungari -

Hold on. Melanie’s back?

GEORGIE
You didn’t hear?

ARCHIVIST
Hear what?

GEORGIE
Yeah, she… had a bad time in India. She got shot.

ARCHIVIST
She… what?

GEORGIE
Yeah, I know.

ARCHIVIST
Is she-

I, I mean, she survived?

GEORGIE
I hope so. I’m going for a drink with her on Thursday. Be a bit awkward if not.

ARCHIVIST
Right…

GEORGIE
I’d take you along but, y’know, she thinks you’re a dick.

ARCHIVIST
Another startling insight from the piercing investigative mind of Georgie Barker. Is she alright?

GEORGIE
Well, she’s had a hell of a time. Figured the least I could do was get her drunk and listen to her bitch about the new job.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, she found something, then?

GEORGIE
Yeah. Didn’t say what. I think she was a bit embarrassed, says her co-workers are super weird.

ARCHIVIST
Really? Really. Well, er, speaking of weirdos, I think you have a Hungarian mountain man to be courting.

GEORGIE
Yes I do. I’ll see you later. Don’t forget the freezer.

ARCHIVIST
I won’t. Have fun.

GEORGIE
Eh, we’ll see.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
Hmm? Oh.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
TIM
[Sigh] Statement of… uh, Benjamin Hatendi… Hateendi? Regarding a… [papers rustling] a blanket. Dead friend. Monster. Regarding his unavoidable and gruesome end. How he tried to hide. He couldn’t. Statement is from… 1983, March 2nd. And I guess… [long sigh] I guess I’m doing this one. Tim Stoker. Archival assistant… Archival prisoner at the Magnus Institute.

Statement.

“My parents never let me have a nightlight. I was always afraid, but they were ju -“

Ugh, this is stupid.

This is stupid. Look, if, if anyone’s listening to this useless tape, it was stupid when John was doing it, and it’s stupid now. I mean, I mean, just what’s the point? We might as well be engraving them on wax cylinders.

[RUSTLING OF PAPERS]
Whoever is listening to this, right now: you’re wasting your time. And if you work for the Magnus Institute, get out. If you can. I mean, that’s what really pisses me off, you know, you spend so long getting used to a jo -

[DOOR KNOCKING]
Uh, come in?

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Hi… Tim, right?

TIM
Right.

MELANIE
I’m Melanie.

TIM
Right.

MELANIE
Melanie King?

TIM
I know who you are.

MELANIE
I… Did Martin not explain?

TIM
Yeah. Yeah, you work here now.

MELANIE
You sound thrilled.

TIM
It’s not you. It’s his fault. He didn’t warn you properly, and now you’re trapped here. With us.

MELANIE
Oh, is this, this whole ‘you can’t quit because of spooky magic’ deal?

TIM
Yeah. You tried?

MELANIE
No. And I’m not going to. I need a job, and it’s fine here. I like it. It’s quiet.

TIM
Sure. If you ignore all the corpses. And the monsters. And the disappearances.

MELANIE
Oh, trust me, you’ll find plenty of those elsewhere. If this whole ‘give quitting a try’ thing is meant to be some kind of subtle hint… I… I just feel like you two don’t want me here.

TIM
We don’t. Martin’s not big on change. I don’t want anyone to be here.

MELANIE
Well, thanks for making me feel like part of the team.

TIM
You’re suspicious and resentful, right? Welcome aboard.

MELANIE
Good talk.

TIM
Wait. Tell me about the two Sashas.

MELANIE
Oh? What?

TIM
Martin said you were rambling about there being two Sashas.

MELANIE
Look, I don’t, I don’t know, I… um, well, the… the first time I came to give a statement, there was a young woman working here named Sasha, er, and then when I, when I came in again there was a different woman working here. And everyone called her Sasha as well, which… I didn’t think was too strange. I mean, i-i-it’s a common name, but everyone kept saying they were the same person and, and they weren’t. At all! John kept saying there’d only ever been one Sasha working there, but they were totally different. And everyone’s been giving me really strange looks whenever I talk about it.

TIM
…

What did she look like?

MELANIE
What? Sorry?

TIM
The first Sasha. What… What was she like?

MELANIE
Uh, she was… um…

I don’t, er… maybe I’m… I’m getting it wrong. I just… okay, I can’t, er -

TIM
No. I… think I understand.

MELANIE
Well, can you explain?

TIM
…

Who am I even sad for?

MELANIE
I… I’m, I’m sorry… I don’t, er…

TIM
Um… I’m, I’m going to lie down. Um. Can you record this for me? [Papers rustling]

It’s part of your job now, I guess. The tape’s already running.

MELANIE
Sure. Sure thing.

[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
MELANIE
Uh, right. Benjamin Hatendi’s account of… [rustling pages] oh for… a, a strange encounter. Er, statement date, March 2nd, 1983. Melanie King recording. Apparently.

So, uh… marker!

[SHE CLAPS]
Right. Here we go. Er…

MELANIE (STATEMENT)
My parents never let me have a night light. I was always afraid, but they were just that sort of stubborn which doubled down when I screamed or cried about something, instead of actually listening. So no matter how terrified I might have been, I would always end up sleeping in the dark.

I don’t know why it was such a cornerstone of their vision to see me grow up strong, but even an adult they would tell me how they “helped me get over my fear of the dark”. It was such a point of pride for them that I could never bring myself to tell them, to say that the fear never really went away. I’ve heard that being exposed to the source of your terror over and over again can help break its power over you, numb you to it, but in my experience it just teaches you to hide from it. Sometimes that might mean hiding in a quiet corner of your mind, but sometimes it’s literally a blanket.

It wasn’t a specific blanket, either. I didn’t have it from childhood, or carry it for security; it was just whatever was on my bed. Thin summer sheet or thick duvet, it didn’t matter, as long as I could duck my head underneath it and curl into a ball, I was fine. Weirdly, the fact it was still pitch black when I was underneath those covers didn’t bother me a bit. The darkness beneath the blankets was my darkness: it was warm and cosy. I trusted it. But that cold, hateful gloom waiting just beyond the thin wall of my sanctuary never really left my mind.

Eventually I grew up, like pretty much everyone, and as the years passed I forgot my childhood fear. The blanket was just there to keep me warm. Until last week.

The mother of an old friend of mine, Robin Patton, called me out of the blue. Now, at that point I hadn’t really seen Robin in about three years, but she sounded close to panic so I listened. She told me she hadn’t heard from him in almost a month, and was convinced something terrible had happened to her son. Apparently he lived alone, and I was the closest friend to Robin’s address. She begged me to go over, and see if anything was wrong.

I feel a bit guilty about how long I put off going, although in the end I guess it didn’t matter. Robin and I hadn’t parted on bad terms or anything, he was just a bit dull, and I had no real wish to bring him back into my life. Still, I couldn’t not check on him, not after that phone call. So, eventually, I drove the half hour over to his cheerful suburban bungalow.

It was almost evening by the time I got out, and as I walked up to the front door I noticed that none of the windows were lit. I was reassured, though, when I saw a shape watching me from the kitchen. I couldn’t really make it out, and it disappeared almost as soon as I’d seen it, but I managed to convince myself that it was Robin, probably wondering why I’d shown up at his door unannounced. I kept telling myself there was no reason to feel so uneasy. When I reached the front door, I saw it was open, and shadows spilled out of it like paint.

It wasn’t open so wide that you could have seen it from the street, but it was immediately clear that something was very wrong with Robin Patton, and I already regretted getting involved. I expected the door to creak when I pulled it, but the hinges moved in complete silence. Inside, everything was gloomy, lit only by a few stray beams of sunset that had managed to slip in past the heavy curtains. There was no sign of any figure watching from the window, but something in the light made the shadows seem as if they were moving. Forwards and backwards, shifting to a beat that only they could hear. I fumbled for a moment or two, looking for a light switch, until I was able to flick the ceiling lights on and the shadows retreated back to where they should have been.

Inside, the place was an absolute mess. Robin had never been a tidy guy, but it looked like it hadn’t been cleaned in weeks. A thin film of dust coated everything, and there was this rancid smell pervading the place, that I thought must have been coming from the fridge. On the wall hung a calendar, still pinned to January. From the looks of things, he hadn’t been living there in over a month. I was about to head out, and find a phone somewhere to call Robin’s mother, and then maybe the police, when I caught another glimpse of movement. I saw through a crack in one of the doors that lead further into the house. This time it was a slow, languid motion, and I was absolutely sure that I’d seen it.

I called out for Robin, or for anyone who might be in there to respond, but I got nothing but that same thick silence. My heart was thumping so hard I could feel my legs shake as I approached the door. I pushed it open, and reached for a light switch on the wall. I found it, turned it on and… nothing happened. The room remained completely black, and for the first time in almost twenty years I began to feel that childish fear of the dark.

Thankfully, I always keep a heavy torch in the car, in case I break down somewhere at night, so I went to fetch it. The weight in my hand was reassuring and solid, as I walked slowly back and into the darkened room. In the light I could see this was Robin’s bedroom. There was a small writing desk covered with papers, a large oak closet, a single bed missing its covers, and a door to a small en suite bathroom in the corner. As I went in, I noticed the dust in here wasn’t as thick as in the rest of the house, and that the last entry marked on his desktop calendar was the 12th of February. Empty food packets and bottles were strewn about the room and piled up in the corner. It looked like though Robin hadn’t left his bedroom in weeks. The rancid odour that I’d caught wind of outside was stronger in here, and I no longer thought it was coming from the fridge.

Slowly and carefully I made my way towards the wardrobe. It was a stark, imposing thing: a good two feet taller than I was. The smell was making my eyes water, but I pushed through. Even if I knew what I was going to find inside, I felt like I had to open it, if only so I could accurately describe it to the police. So that’s what I did. I gripped the ice-cold brass handle, took as deep a breath as I could endure, and opened the door to the closet.

The shape that slid out did not, at first, resemble anything I would have called human. It looked like a large, wet bag, glistening and slick, with a dark liquid that oozed from it onto the floor. I won’t even try to describe the smell. It was only when I saw a shrivelled, nearly skeletal hand gripping the edge of the bag from the inside that I realised what I was actually looking at.

It was Robin, but when he had climbed into that cupboard he had taken the sheets from his bed. He had wrapped them tightly around himself as he sat in there, clutching them in what I can only assume was mortal terror. And now, in death, they had fused to him, his own putrefying fluids mixing with whatever gross liquid had soaked into that thick fabric. How long had he sat there waiting? Hours? Days? Had it been since the 12th, two weeks before I had come to check on him?

And as I stood there, in utter horror, the growing pool of dark liquid touched the tip of my shoe. That’s it. That’s the moment that I believe it started for me. I don’t know why particularly that moment fixates me, that there must have been dozens of other ways I called attention to myself. But even so, whenever I look back, I cannot shake the conviction that it was that moment I sealed my fate. Because I didn’t watch where I put my feet.

I called the police at that point. They were very understanding, although once a search turned up nothing they didn’t pay any attention to my insistence someone else had been in the house. For all the strangeness of it, there didn’t seem to be any actual evidence of foul play, so I was really just offered some condolences, and sent on my way. They were the ones that called Robin’s mother in the end, and to be honest I’m glad. I don’t really think I could have handled that conversation.

And then it was over. Nothing for me to do but go home, and try to process what I was feeling, what I had seen in that dusty bungalow. And I thought I was doing okay. At least while the daylight held. But that night it came for me.

I woke up at 2:40 in the morning. I don’t know why. There was no sound to disturb me, just a sudden and urgent need to no longer be sleeping. And as I opened my eyes I felt that old fear of the dark hit me again with such force my muscles began to seize up. I raised my head just enough to get a clear view of the door to my room, and I saw what I somehow knew I was going to see.

It was impossible to make out any details of the form that stood in the doorway, it was simply a patch of shadow even darker than the night that surrounded it. A silhouette in the pitch black. At first I thought it was a trick of my eyes adjusting to the dark, but then it began to move. Its body was fat and bulbous, with no limbs or head, so when it came towards me it did so with a slow, undulating pulse along the floor. I could see its outside was covered in what might have been feelers or fleshy tubes, and as it gradually made its way towards me I could see them flicking out and spasming wildly, in what looked horribly like excitement.

Instinct, honed throughout my entire childhood, kicked in and I pulled the thick blanket I was under up and over my head. I gripped the edges close to my chest, weeping and muttering desperate prayers. I clung to it, my tiny island of safety and protection, not even daring to stick my arm out to grab my phone from the nightstand. Who would I have called, anyway? Who could possibly have been prepared to deal with something like this?

As my mind raced through the possibilities, I gradually began to realise that I could hear nothing from beyond the blanket, nor did it appear I had been devoured by whatever the thing in the darkness was. Very gently I poked my head out from my sanctuary. It was still there, looming in the doorway, utterly still. As soon as I saw it, though, it convulsed back into movement and started once again making its way towards me, painstaking and slow. I dived back under the covers, gripping them tighter than ever.

Another hour passed, and then two, but it was only when I poked my head out that the thing would move. As ridiculous as it sounds, it seemed that while I was under the covers it couldn’t move. It couldn’t get me.

I stayed under the rest of the night. When the daylight began streaming in the next morning, I finally left the safety of my bed to see what had become of the thing. It was gone, unsurprisingly, and in its place there was simply a small patch of dark, foul-smelling water.

I wasn’t quite ready to celebrate, though, and the following night proved me right. Because it came back. I woke again, and saw it start that twitching, torturous journey towards me. So back under the covers I went, heart racing, desperately trying to think through what might be happening to me. In retrospect it’s odd that at no point did I even consider that I might be hallucinating. I never had any doubts that the thing was real. At some point I finally fell asleep, and I guess I managed to stay under that blanket.

That’s been my life for the last week and a half. I wake up, gripped by terror of the dark, and hide under the covers from this thing that only comes closer when I leave their protection. It’s been awful, obviously, but in the end it wasn’t the gradual wearing down of my nerves that got me. If anything, it was the opposite. I got too comfortable.

Last night I woke up like before. I sensed it there, but as I raised the covers over my head, I realised that I wasn’t worried. Fear had given way to routine. I lay there, warm and protected, and simply waited to fall back to sleep. But this time, what I felt instead was a sudden weight pressing down on the end of my bed. Whipping tendrils began to smack and grasp against my flimsy fabric barrier. I could see that shape of absolute darkness looming over me, quivering with triumph. Then I heard a voice, crisp and clear, whispering.

And it said, “The blanket never did anything.”

I won’t describe what happened after that. You’ve taken plenty of photos of my back and shoulders already. To say it hurts is the least of its horrors. That thing will come for me again tonight, I know it will, and there is nothing that can protect me. I just thought sharing my story might help some other poor idiot in the future.

I miss my blanket. Hiding was always so much easier.

MELANIE
[DEEP EXHALATION]
[CLAP]
Marker.

Uh, statement ends.

Well, er, that was… I suppose this is what I do now. Um… there, there aren’t any photos in the file, er, certainly not of weird supernatural injuries. There’s a photocopy of a death certificate for Benjamin Hatendi - looks like Martin has highlighted the cause of death. Says “Unknown - possible biological agent. All samples incinerated”. It’s dated as March 7th 1983, five days after this statement.

Then there are some old cuttings about Robin Patton. Profiles from magazines… um… [papers rustling] Oh, he must have been quite something in the hiking community. Ah, apparently he wrote a book. Something about the best natural pools and lakes for swimming. Yeah, mostly just background fluff, and pictures of the guy emerging topless from waterfalls. Hmm, wasn’t bad looking, before… well… that.

Er, anyway, er, doesn’t look relevant.

I, I suppose that’s it. Er, the only other thing in there is… a sealed Ziploc bag containing an old fabric tag. Fantastic. Looks like it might be from a mattress or a duvet, maybe. It’s, uh, it’s got some rather pronounced dark stains on the end. It’s probably nonsense. It’s all probably nonsense. But I’m going to keep it sealed.

Uh… I suppose… that’s a wrap.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SOUNDS OF A CAFÉ ENVIRONMENT]
ARCHIVIST
Thank you for meeting me.

MELANIE
Well, why wouldn’t I? It’s not like you’re ‘wanted for murder’.

ARCHIVIST
[SHUSHING NOISES]
Can you keep it down?

MELANIE
[Stage whisper] Sure, I’ll just quietly sit here and become an accessory, shall I?

ARCHIVIST
You, you -

You know I didn’t do it.

MELANIE
Oh. Oh, do I? Is that what I know?

ARCHIVIST
Alright. Why didn’t you send the police, then?

…

If you genuinely think I’m a killer, why meet me?

MELANIE
W - I mean, it’s not… it’s not like you’ve got any reason to kill me.

ARCHIVIST
[NON-COMMITTAL SOUND]
MELANIE
Fine. I don’t think you did it. But I still don’t want to get caught up in whatever it is.

ARCHIVIST
Should have thought about that before you joined the Institute.

MELANIE
What is the deal with you people? Look, I know it’s kind of a boys’ club, but you all really hate me being there, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST
What? No, I -

There’s a lot of very messed up things going on there and, I… I mean, we were already tied to them, but you I just… You didn’t need to get involved.

MELANIE
I really don’t think that’s true.

…

ARCHIVIST
How’s the leg?

MELANIE
Fine. Got shot by a ghost.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… er, what?

MELANIE
Look, can we not do that now? I’m really not in the mood. What do you want?

ARCHIVIST
I… Right. It’s… like I said, there’s a lot of messed up stuff at the Institute, and… I think the murders might be the least of it. I need someone on the inside to keep an eye on things, let me know what’s going on. I’d ask someone else, but…

MELANIE
Tim hates you, and Martin’s probably being watched.

ARCHIVIST
And Elias is my chief suspect, so… I’m also rather missing the library. My investigative tools out here are, uh, lacking.

MELANIE
You know what? Fine. Fine! But you tell me everything. Okay? Everything.

ARCHIVIST
I mean… you, you won’t believe it.

MELANIE
I don’t care.

ARCHIVIST
Alright. Alright.

MELANIE
Start with Sasha.

ARCHIVIST
…

Okay.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GEORGIE
Look, I’m really not sure about this.

ARCHIVIST
I just need to borrow it for a half hour or so. I, I’ll look after it.

GEORGIE
Wha - No, I don’t-

You can blow it up for all I care. It’s been in the loft for, like, twenty years. If I need tape hiss, I’ll add it in post.

ARCHIVIST
So, what’s the problem?

GEORGIE
With playing an unmarked tape from your stalker?

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

Look, you just have to trust me, okay.

GEORGIE
Yeah, and I want to do that, but how can I when you still won’t tell me what’s going on?

ARCHIVIST
You wouldn’t believe me!

GEORGIE
Try me.

ARCHIVIST
…

[Sigh] You’re right.

It’s… It’s alright. I can just go.

GEORGIE
Come on, I’m not throwing you out, John. I know you wouldn’t be here if you had anywhere else to go, and I… I do want to help, but… y’know, you’re a good person. You were, at least. But whatever this is, it’s messing you up!

[Sigh] Look I’ve, I’ve got work to do. You listen, or don’t listen, or cross-record, or whatever you want, just… just think about it first, okay? You can choose to leave it alone.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[SIGH]
[TAPE PLAYER IS LOADED]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Case 0141010, Sebastian Skinner. Incident occurred in Gwydir Forest, North Wales, September 2014. Statement given 10th of October, 2014. Committed to tape 4th of April, 2015. Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
Everyone always tells me I don’t notice things. “Sebastian,” they say, “you wouldn’t notice if you grew a second nose.” And I suppose in many ways that’s true. It’s not that I’m forgetful or stupid, you understand, just that I’m not very good at spotting things that are out of place. The mind has a way of filling in things it’s not concentrating on; just wallpapering them over with what you expect to see. I rather think that part of my brain is more powerful than in most people. I’ll never notice if you got a new haircut or piercing, and it’s a bit of gamble whether I notice when you’ve had a baby.

You’d think that’d get in the way of being a plumber, but it really hasn’t, to be honest. The thing you’ve got to remember is, if I know what I need to focus on I spot things just fine. And plumbing’s great for that - depending on the problem, there’s always the things I know need checking, one after the other, until one of them doesn’t look right. Then the fix is usually simple enough. There’s no need to look at the thing as a whole, or pinpoint changes or oddities.

So, even now, thinking back, it’s hard to say if there was anything particularly strange about the call as it came in. Saying that I didn’t notice anything out of the ordinary doesn’t really mean anything in that context. I suppose that the location they gave me was a bit of a surprise. I run my business out of Penmachno, out in Gwydir Forest, and it’s not exactly a densely populated area. I service people all over the region, and I wasn’t aware of any village or buildings out in the area of the woods the caller directed me to. I mean, they had co-ordinates on GPS, as there were no street names that they could give for reference. It was an area I did sometimes drive though, and I didn’t remember anything being there, but I also didn’t really think about it at the time. I suppose I reasoned that maybe there were some houses out there and, well, I hadn’t noticed.

The problem sounded like a simple enough blockage, so I packed up my van, and started the journey over. It shouldn’t have taken nearly as long as it did, but the roads aren’t all that easy to navigate at night, even with your satnav doing its best, and especially when heading towards somewhere you’re not familiar with, trying to find the right road to get into some hidden valley or other. The call must have come in about seven thirty, as I’d just finished my dinner. I don’t normally do night callouts, but something about it had seemed urgent, and they had agreed to double my standard rate.

I pulled up to a small collection of ramshackle looking buildings, made of wood and corrugated sheet metal, all set up around a large central building, that seemed like some sort of workshop or small factory. At first I thought it might have been a logging facility, but we were only a few miles from Penmachno, so if there were trees being chopped down here, I’d have known about it. Probably. I mean, even I’d be hard-pressed to miss the sound of industrial chainsaws.

I pulled off the side of what seemed like a makeshift car park and got out. Somebody came over to meet me. Megan, she said her name was, and that we’d spoken on the phone. She was very still when she said this, and seemed to be waiting for me to respond, so I grabbed my tools, and told her to show me to the plughole. She seemed a bit taken aback by this, so I apologised, assuming I’d been a bit too crude for her, and I asked her where I could find the problem drain.

She led me up to the big building, gripped the door, and flung it open wide. There was a damp, metallic smell that came from inside. Probably from the backed up drain, I thought, although I will admit it didn’t smell much like anything I’d encountered before. Megan was stood in the doorway, arms spread wide for some reason, but to be honest I’d been checking my tools, and hadn’t really seen what she was doing. I asked her again to take me to the drain, and she made a rather odd noise, and led me inside.

We walked through the main floor of the workshop, with people bustling about either side, doing whatever it was they were doing. My mind was focused on the job at hand. Megan took me into a back room full of pipes and gratings, and pointed to a drain in the centre of the floor where dark water was pooling out of the top. You’d have thought the dark red would have clued me in to what was happening but, honestly, there are all sorts of industrial chemicals that turn water that colour, so it didn’t really register as worrying. So, I pulled up the grate, and got to work.

All through it, Megan was chatting with me quietly. She was whispering, making it a bit hard to hear her over the noise from the main building, so I mostly just nodded and made the appropriate sounds of interest. And I thought she was talking about her hobbies. After all, I’d never actually heard the term ‘flensing’ before, and the way she was talking about it I assumed it was some sort of a sculpture. I mean, you meet all sorts of strange people in my line of work, and I pride myself on being able to keep up a gentle conversation with all of them. I have, of course, since looked up flensing, and that certainly throws a lot of that conversation into a very different light indeed. I don’t think she was offering to do a sculpture of me.

Anyway, soon enough I’d found the blockage: a big old wad of hardened fat and oil that had congealed at one of the bends, and removed it for them. It wasn’t nearly as big a job as I’d been afraid it might have been, and I talked Megan through my invoicing procedure as we walked back through the workshop floor.

She was silent as I left, and seemed as though she was trying to get over some sort of shock. I guessed that she’d come over a bit queasy when I’d pulled out the blockage, and was embarrassed to admit it. It’s a common enough thing: the sight of the sort of mess that builds up in drainpipes can really get to you if you’re not used to it. Anyway, I decided not to mention anything, just handed her my details, and told her I’d be in touch about payment. Then I hopped back into my van and drove away. Job done.

At least, I had assumed it was job done. I wish, I very much wish, that it had been job done. It was the next day that the phone rang, about midday, and the now-familiar voice of Megan asked me to come back. She said that they were having the same problem, but with a different drain. This struck me as a little bit odd, since I’d been pretty sure a building like that would only have one central drain, which I had already sorted out.

Still, there was no harm in going to have a look, I told myself. After all, they clearly didn’t know anything about plumbing over there, and if I took good care of them I might have gotten myself a nice supply of repeat business. So once again I packed up my truck, and started the drive.

It was the most infuriating thing. Even in the daylight, having been there once already, finding the little valley proved remarkably difficult. I’d set out in good time, but it was still getting well into the afternoon when I finally pulled up into the small, dirt clearing.

I hopped out to a sight that, in the daylight, even I noticed was deeply odd: Megan was stood there, waving a greeting at me, dressed in some sort of bright, blue and red costume, like a jester or a clown. Had she been wearing that the night before? Surely not. Although, I suppose I didn’t really look at her clothes. Sat on a folding chair next to her was a squat, thickly muscled woman with close-cropped black hair, who stared at me with a really vicious-looking smirk. She exchanged a glance with Megan, who just nodded at her, and then she burst into cruel laughter, and I was suddenly feeling very uncomfortable.

I just stood there, toolbox in hand, debating whether or not to turn around and drive away. I had just about decided to leave when I felt Megan’s hand grip my wrist. I hadn’t noticed her moving towards me. Her fingers dug into me, and they felt really, really wrong. Like hard plastic wrapped in raw bacon. She was strong though, strong enough to drag me toward the big workshop and its open door. I was struggling, and told her to let me go, but she just ignored me. I cried out to the woman sat on the lawn chair for help, but she just laughed harder.

I was still begging for help when I felt Megan’s hard, cold fingers dig into the top of my head and turn it to face into the building. I hadn’t noticed that we’d reached the door, but in the afternoon sunlight, the reality of what I had walked through the night before was clearly shown in terrible detail.

Rows and rows of old and broken stools stood before crude frames of wire and wood. Sat on each stool were figures of all shapes and sizes. None of them were human. Some were wood themselves, old, and stained with rot. Some were a shiny, dark plastic or porcelain white. A few were cloth and hessian, stuffed to bursting and leaking sawdust from a dozen places. All of them were featureless, and moved with a jerky motion like nothing I had seen outside of my dreams.

Each gripped a razor-sharp knife, and moved it swiftly over the human heads suspended in the frames from wire and fishhooks, gently cutting around the edges. I could see the rest of the bodies piled haphazardly in the corner, and for a second all I was able to do was wonder why they didn’t smell worse than they did.

Then all the cutting figures turned to face me at once, and I screamed. And when I screamed, the eyes of every head swivelled in their frames and stared at me with the desperate pleading that told me they still knew pain. I was babbling, pleading with Megan, asking what she wanted. “I want you to meet our boss,” she said lightly. I didn’t know who that was, and she stared at me, skin starting to slip away from her painted-on eyes. “You may call them I Do Not Know You.”

I don’t know why those words filled me with such deep dread, but I felt every muscle in my body tighten. On instinct, and without warning, I swung the toolbox up with all the force I had in me into Megan’s face, and heard the crunching crack of something brittle shatter. Her hand released my arm as I stared at her, face now twisted and hanging off the dark plastic of her head, the empty mouth moving, trying to match the vile sounds coming from the rest of her.

I ran, sprinting back to my van as fast as I could, only to see that the woman with the cropped hair had stood up and moved to the driver’s side door. I didn’t have time to slow down; I just prepared to try and tackle her, when she did something I didn’t expect. She opened the door for me, and stepped back.

Not taking time to consider this, I leapt into the seat, and started to fumble for the keys. The engine roared to life immediately, and I was just about to get the out of there when I realised I could feel the woman’s hand on my shoulder. I looked at her, the door still open, and she winked at me. Without warning, a terrible, blistering heat erupted on my back, and I screamed again, this time in agony. Reflex slammed my foot down, and I felt the car start as she removed her hand, laughing that same horrible laugh.

I did manage to get away, though there’s a good chance I’ll never use this arm properly again. I went to the police, of course. I didn’t tell them exactly what happened, just that I’d noticed what I believed to be human remains during a job, and had been attacked as I tried to leave. They actually took me seriously, and were all prepared to drive out to investigate, as I understand it, when the fire started. The worst fire in Gwydir Forest for almost two hundred years, apparently. Some of the most beautiful natural scenery in the world reduced to ash. It destroyed my home, as well as quite a few of the others in Penmachno, but luckily nobody died.

The weirdest part, though? Nobody died, officially speaking, because although the police, fire crews and forest services combed the burned area acre by scorched acre, they didn’t find any human remains at all. The closest they found was the warped and twisted frame of an old, plastic mannequin.

GERTRUDE
Final comments: When this statement was added to the Collection, I was convinced it was the Stranger issuing me a direct threat. Mr. Sebastian Skinner. It seemed too targeted a name to be real. But all my research points to him being a real person: a plumber trading out of Penmachno for almost twenty years. Hopefully not too ominous a coincidence.

The concerning part of this statement, at least as far as I’m concerned, is not so much what is happening, as the fact that it is happening so soon. I had assumed Orsinov and her ilk would have spent more time searching for their precious skin, maybe even acting against me directly, before they started alternate preparations. I had hoped I’d have a chance to recover. I can still barely stand.

I’d hoped there would be more time.

As with anything like this, exact calculations are impossible, but based on Mr. Skinner’s testimony, I think there’s every likelihood that they will be ready to perform the Unknowing within the next few years. There may be no chance for a more… ‘nuanced’ way to disrupt it, so I’ll likely have to resort to a somewhat more… direct countermeasure. Hmm.

It interests me that Jude Perry would be involved. I was unaware that The Lightless Flame had had any contact with the Stranger’s ilk, but I suppose it makes sense that it would be a possible ally to the Devastation, especially since their own plans have so recently, erm, gone up in flames. Perhaps they hope to achieve a pride of place in the world Orsinov hopes to bring about? Or maybe, they simply relished the chance to burn down some beautiful forest.

Regardless, I’ve been keeping an eye Jude’s movements ever since she lost Agnes, and it appears she’s back in Havering. Part of me wants to confront her, see what she knows, but I’m not that desperate. Not yet. [Sigh]

I’ve been unable to contact Mr. Skinner since he gave his statement. Sad, but unsurprising. There’s no doubt in my mind that when the Unknowing begins, one of the dancers will be wearing his face.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Hmm. What strikes me more than anything else here is the date. It’s only a year or so before she died. I had assumed Gertrude had recorded to tape for a while and then stopped, but it sees she was recording them right up until the end. But if they did span decades of working at the Institute, why aren’t there more? And what decided which statements she transferred?

Regardless, whoever my mystery pen pal is, it seems they’re pushing me in a very deliberate direction. It sounds like the Unknowing is a ritual, one connected to the Stranger, this ‘I Do Not Know You’. What did Gertrude mean about skin? The page she was given by Mary, maybe? No, that doesn’t add up. [Sigh] God, this is confusing.

For the first time, though, I feel like I might have a lead. It’s tangential, not directly connected to the Stranger or the Unknowing, but… but I have a name now. Jude Perry, and she was still living in London less than two years ago. It’s not much, but it is a start. I don’t know if I have the resources to track her down myself, but if Melanie’s willing to help, the Institute might have more luck.

[FAINT SOUNDS OF CALLIOPE MUSIC COME DRIFTING IN]
ARCHIVIST
If she is an active member of the Lightless Flame cult there’s every possibility tracking her down will be dangerous, but it’s also the… the only…?

[STARTS BREATHING HEAVILY]
[Sotto voce, shakily] Oh god…

[DOOR OPENS]
GEORGIE
Can you hear that? Like a, an ice cream van or something?

ARCHIVIST
Circus!

GEORGIE
Yeah. Yeah, thought I was going mad. Christ, are you alright?

[THE MUSIC FADES AWAY]
ARCHIVIST
Ummm…

GEORGIE
Was it the tape?

ARCHIVIST
What? No! No, it w- it w- it was- it was outside.

GEORGIE
No, not, not the music, your face!

ARCHIVIST
What?

GEORGIE
That’s it. Whatever the hell this deal is, the tapes, documents, I don’t want them in my house.

ARCHIVIST
Look, look… No, no…

Look, you, you don’t need to be scared.

GEORGIE
I’m not! You are! Look at you, you can barely stand!

ARCHIVIST
But I… But I need-

GEORGIE
Listen to me, John. I can’t stop you doing… whatever secret bullshit you want to do, and I’m… not going to throw you out on the street, but I’m not having it in by home.

ARCHIVIST
No… No, they won’t. I’ll make sure it doesn’t… I’ll keep it far away.

GEORGIE
No, you need to stop.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure I can.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
BASIRA
Huh.

You still recording then?

MARTIN
What?

[CHAIRS MOVING, PAPERS RUSTLING]
BASIRA
Why? I thought that was John’s thing.

MARTIN
I mean, yeah, a bit.

You wanted to see me?

BASIRA
Yeah, well, your boss is busy and I tried talking to Tim, but…

MARTIN
Yeah, right.

BASIRA
And he said Sasha’s gone, so I thought I’d talk to you.

MARTIN
Okay. What do you want?

BASIRA
I’m looking for Daisy.

MARTIN
Oh for - Okay, I don’t know where she is! I don’t know where anybody is! Why does everyone… okay, why does everyone think that I always know where everyone is, all the time?!

BASIRA
Alright, okay, alright, sorry. They just… well, they said at the station that this was the last place she checked in.

MARTIN
When she was interviewing us. That was like a month ago!

BASIRA
Yeah, I haven’t heard anything so I went to check in with her at the station, and they said she hadn’t been in since February.

MARTIN
And no-one’s looked into that?

BASIRA
I mean, they don’t keep a close eye on… Well, she goes off the grid sometimes when working a case. Never this long, though. I thought it might have something to do with… y’know.

MARTIN
Look, he didn’t kill anyone, okay? There’s… I think something’s going on, okay. I actually think he was framed.

BASIRA
Yeah, well, I hope so. If not, well… I just can’t believe I was so stupid, you know? He really got me.

MARTIN
Got you how?

BASIRA
I actually thought I misjudged him. Hell, I liked the guy.

MARTIN
Wait, you mean… like you…

BASIRA
[Spluttering] Oh, what? Urgh, no! Why does everyone think that?

MARTIN
Right, yeah, ‘cause I don’t actually… I don’t actually think he…

BASIRA
I just, I mean he was good company. Y’know, when he wasn’t being a paranoia machine. He was funny, you know?

MARTIN
What, John?

BASIRA
Yeah.

MARTIN
I don’t think I’ve ever heard him tell a joke.

BASIRA
Maybe you weren’t listening.

MARTIN
Right. Well, I’m sure it’ll get sorted out when Daisy brings him in and you can probably talk to him then. Oh, sorry, I forgot you’re not actually with the police any more, are you.

BASIRA
Thanks.

So, you have no idea where Daisy is?

MARTIN
I’m sure she’s fine. She’s probably just using her “operation discretion” to bully someone else.

BASIRA
What did you say?

MARTIN
Well, she was really rude, actually. She threatened to say I -

BASIRA
No, no. Did she use the phrase “operational discretion”?

MARTIN
Yeah. She said she had “full operational discretion”.

Is everything alright?

BASIRA
I need to find him.

MARTIN
Well, I’m sure your partner will find him; I just hope she’s not as -

BASIRA
No, I need to find him now! You’re sure you don’t know where she is?

MARTIN
No! I don’t know anything.

BASIRA
Okay, alright, fine. Just… Here’s my number. You call me immediately if you find anything out, okay?

MARTIN
Fine. Now please, we’re really busy.

BASIRA
Yeah, I need to go.

MARTIN
Yeah, good luck.

[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
MARTIN
Right, um, let’s…

…

[PAPERS SHUFFLING]
Martin Blackwood, Archival Assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 0031104, statement of Enrique MacMillan, given 4th November 2003.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
I never really loved the digging. Too much like hard work, I always used to say, and I’m not a young man anymore. So generally, if the finds aren’t near enough the surface for me to just pick them up, I’ll leave them be. Sometimes, though, you just can’t help yourself. You need to know what’s under there, so you get down on your knees and dig, dig, dig.

Last Saturday was like that. I hadn’t thought it would be, really. My knees had been acting up all week because of the damp, and I was mainly going out for the walk, rather than looking for any particular finds. To be honest, I was in two minds about taking the metal detector at all; it’s not exactly a lightweight piece of equipment. Back when I lived in London I always used to do mudlarking down the Thames. Wandering through the low tide with nothing but a bag, my eyes and a pair of thick gloves. I miss those days, without the weight of the detector. Without the need to dig.

I don’t even know why I took it. In the end, that stretch of beach is hardly virgin territory for hobbyists like me, and it’s usually been picked perfectly clean. So you can imagine my surprise when I started to pick something up just before Smeatons Pier.

It was almost dark by this point, and the cool salt air of St Ives harbour blew a fine spray of sand against my cheeks. It stung slightly, but not in an unpleasant way. Bracing, I think the word is. It was peaceful, quiet, and I was lost in my own thoughts, staring out over the darkening ocean, when the metal detector interrupted, breaking my trance.

I pulled out my little torch and shone it at the spot, looking for the telltale glint. But there was nothing but sand. Whatever it was must have been buried. I was debating with myself whether to leave it be when the detector barked again, more insistently. I hadn’t found anything else that day, so I sighed, pulled out my small, metal spade out of my bag, and started to dig.

It was only a minute or two before I saw it, a hint of gold-plated metal amid the coarser gold of the sand. A watch. The face was cracked down the middle, and the hands were frozen at four nineteen, but other than that it seemed to be in rather good condition. Not a bad little find, I remember thinking, as I started to clean the sand from around it. And uncovered the wrist it was still attached to.

I think I screamed. I must have cried out in some way, but nobody heard me, as there was no-one to hear but me. I cleared away a bit more sand, just to be sure of what I was seeing, and quickly revealed a stiff, unmoving hand. The flesh was icy cold and discoloured, so I was certain its owner must be dead, but it didn’t appear to have begun decomposing. I lowered myself slowly to the ground, trying to collect my thoughts, considering the thing I had just discovered with my clumsy, reckless digging.

I wanted to call the police immediately, but I don’t have a mobile phone, and it was a little bit of a walk to the nearest phonebox. My legs wouldn’t stop shaking when I tried to stand up, so I sat there for a while, my torch shining on that lifeless hand, trying to compose myself enough to go get help. It was an odd thing, that hand. The fingers were bent and bloody, and the nails had been chipped and broken. From the looks of it, the damage had happened before its owner had passed away.

Then I noticed something else in the sand next to it. Something protruding ever so slightly from the sand I’d already disturbed. It didn’t seem like part of the body, and I found myself reaching over to try and pull it up. It slipped out of the sand easily, eagerly even, and I didn’t even need to dig.

It was a book. The cloth of the cover had worn away, and it was still wet from the seawater that covered the area at high tide. I expected it to be a useless lump of wet paper mush, fused together and unreadable, but when I pulled it open the pages came apart easily. There was a label at the very front, but the ink had run and I have no idea what it might have said. So I turned to the first page.

It was very strange. It was just the one word, solid capital letters in a small, neat typeface at the very centre of the page. It said ‘DIG’. I took that to be the title, and turned to the next page. ‘DIG’. Exactly the same. The third page. ‘DIG’. The fourth page. ‘DIG’. Dig, dig, dig, dig.

Holding it hurt my hands. You know the way that if you say or read a word over and over again, it starts to lose all its meaning? To just sound like a jumble of noises or unrelated letters? Well this was the opposite. Every time I read it, it was like the meaning of the word became more solid in my mind. I knew what it was to find your meaning buried in the earth, to claw your sense from under the sand and mud and soil, to dig.

I had almost completely unearthed the body when the police arrived. Apparently a late-night jogger had spotted the scene, and called them. They believed me when I explained to them how I had found it, though they were none too pleased that I had so thoroughly ruined what may well have been a crime scene. I don’t think it was, and one of the friendlier officers later told me the man had probably dug himself too deep a hole in the beach, and it had collapsed on him when the tide had come in. A tragedy, but not unheard of. They still weren’t pleased with me, though, and once they had my statement I was sent on my way. The book was in my bag, and they didn’t ask to look inside, so… I kept it. I probably should have mentioned it to the police, but they were very rude. I understand now, of course, that they were simply irritated that I had robbed them of their opportunity to dig.

Perhaps they sensed it, that need inside of us. Above us, you see, there’s only the sky, the infinite, a void of space and emptiness so incredible that to think of it in detail is to overwhelm the mind. But down, down into the earth. Through the many layers of this globe, this sphere built and crusted upon a single, beating point. The centre of the universe for each and every one of us, that glorious convergence from which everything, everywhere, is ‘up’. To reach it, to approach that source, that rolling, molten centre of it all, the only thing you have to do is dig.

I’ve dreamed of it, of course. Safe and happy below, wrapped on all sides by uncounted miles of crushing, loving, earth and stone. I see it, and watch the passing of history build upon it, layer after layer. To travel down into the ground is to travel through time, that’s what I always used to say, before I found my book. And I still believe it, but time is the least of the things that waits for us down there, things I can barely think of without collapsing in fear. A thousand terrible things, trapped and alone, out of air and out of light, all contained within those three hideous letters: DIG.

In those dreams I hold a spade. It screams when I plunge it into the weeping soil, and the voice it cries out with is my own. The soft mud begs me to stop, trying in vain to save me. But I do not listen, and the pitted ruin of my shovel moves lump after lump of it, tearing it free of itself, and piling it around me, sculpting my own grave. Bringing the ground up to meet me where I must be buried. It fills my lungs, and I am free. I am awake. The shovel is in my hand, and the book is open to its chapter and verse: DIG.

In the moments without the shovel, without the torn ground, I have tried to find out more about the book, maybe even get rid of it. A bookseller I asked about it pointed me towards you and yours, before I dug into him, and so here I came. To tell my story, of course, but another thing as well; cold, empty and calling. There’s something here, you see. Something to be dug up, rooted out, buried within. A hollow space that all eyes point towards. And I intend to reach it, if my fingers don’t give out first. I know where to dig.

MARTIN
[Recomposing himself] Uh, um, the, uh, the statement ends rather abruptly there. Based on a few scattered notes and accounts from some of the older staff, it sounds like Mr. Macmillan got in a bit of a fight, which led to his arrest, and the replacement of quite a bit of the floor in John’s office. There are still a couple of boards with marks on them that I’d always hoped weren’t fingernail scratches, but I guess…

…

Anyway, Mr. Macmillan passed away while awaiting trial. Official cause of death is listed as “asphyxiation”, but I can’t find any details about exactly what happened. The book is currently held by Artefact Storage in a welded iron box, and placed on the top of the Do Not Access list, but since then it doesn’t look like it’s caused anything weird to happen.

[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Er, yes?

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Hi, have you got a moment?

MARTIN
Um, yeah, I think, um…

MELANIE
Are you alright?

MARTIN
Yeah… Sorry, just a lot of change recently, y’know. You and John and Sasha and… everything’s gone a bit wrong.

It’s the not knowing, you know? I mean, John’s still alive. Not sure why, but I’m sure of that. But Sasha, I…

MELANIE
Yes, it’s… it’s probably, um…

MARTIN
Sorry, sorry, I’m- What do you need?

MELANIE
Oh, right, yes. Is there any sort of database, maybe? [MARTIN SNORTS] Statement givers or people referenced? I’m trying to get hold of a witness from a recent one.

MARTIN
Yeah, yeah, I wish. That would… I mean, that would make the job a lot easier.

MELANIE
No-one’s even tried to make one?

MARTIN
Oh, you weren’t here when we took the place over from Gertrude. It’s been over a year just to get it like this. I mean, I think the database was on John’s list, but…

MELANIE
So how do you track someone down?

MARTIN
Oh, oh well, y’know, we’ve a few contacts in various record offices around the place. Aside from that it’s just… just a bit of detective work, really. Er, Tim used to do a great line in impersonating people to utility companies. Ah, the number of times he got them to give him ‘his own’ address…

MELANIE
Right, right… Um, this one the name is “Jude Perry”. Doesn’t mean anything to you, does it?

MARTIN
Uh… no. Did she give a statement?

MELANIE
Not yet.

MARTIN
Well. Sorry I can’t be more help.

MELANIE
Sure. Oh, er, one other thing. Who do I talk to about Artefact Storage?

MARTIN
Oh, er, depends what you need, probably Sonja. Why? Are you sure you’re ready for it?

MELANIE
What’s that supposed to mean?

MARTIN
No, no, I just, just… Y’know, it’s… There’s a lot of weird stuff in there.

MELANIE
[Indignant] I’m not an amateur, Martin. I know the sort of thing that’s in there. I just need to know who I talk to about missing pieces.

MARTIN
Yeah, prob-probably Sonja.

Wait, why? What’s gone missing?

MELANIE
An old calliope [pronounces it ‘Ka-lee-o-pee’] organ. It’s there in the inventory, but no-one can find it when I ask.

MARTIN
Huh. I mean, that’s not… great. Er, did you need it for something?

MELANIE
Just following up a statement. Trying to get a few answers, you know?

MARTIN
Huh. Well, if you find any, let me know.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Something funny, Ms. Perry?

JUDE
[Chuckling] Uh, yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Care to share?

JUDE
I think it’s pretty obvious.

ARCHIVIST
Look, I lost my normal coat, and i-it’s cold. Some us actually feel it, you know?

JUDE
You wouldn’t shake my hand.

ARCHIVIST
Well, no, I’m not stupid! Whatever the Lightless Flame is -

L-Look, will you stop that?!

JUDE
[Laughing] Oh, alright. Ah… I hate explaining jokes, but, um… Imagine you’re, um… a butcher, and one day an injured little lamb walks into your workshop, and strides right into one of the mincing machines, but when you go up to it, knife in hand, it shakes it’s head and tells you “I’m not stupid”. Do you get why that’s funny?

ARCHIVIST
Right. But no more abattoir metaphors, please.

JUDE
Suppose it’s not really me, is it? Would you rather be a really stupid piece of firewood?

ARCHIVIST
I just have a few questions. Did you burn down a section of Gwydir Forest last year?

JUDE
Not alone, but yes. You should have seen how devastated they were, such a loss.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sure the Forestry Commission were mortified. Why?

JUDE
…

Stop that! And it was because Nikola Orsinov asked us to. She was done with the place, and we’re always happy to help, when that help is destroying something someone loves.

ARCHIVIST
But -

JUDE
No more questions, Archivist!

ARCHIVIST
I just… er, you were a friend of Agnes Montague, correct?

JUDE
She’s not one of your little stories.

ARCHIVIST
According to the statement of Jack Barnabas, she very much is.

JUDE
The burnt-face little runt? He got what was coming to him. Just like…

ARCHIVIST
Yes, yes, I understand, you could easily kill me, I’m at your mercy, blah, blah, blah. I have heard it before. And from things much scarier than you

JUDE
That a fact?

ARCHIVIST
Okay, so… why haven’t you done it?

JUDE
We’re in public.

ARCHIVIST
Well, you’re not- You’re hardly keeping your voice down.

JUDE
You talk about god and death and demons nice and loud, and watch people bend over backwards not to listen to what you’re saying. No-one cares.

ARCHIVIST
If you say so.

JUDE
Are you trying to talk me into killing you? If I wanted, I could reach through your chest like runny wax, and hold your heart while it cooked. No-one would even notice, if I didn’t give you time to scream.

ARCHIVIST
Right. R-right. So why don’t you? Does your ‘god’ not want you to?

JUDE
[Considering] Hard to say. When I look at you I feel that burning liquid pain, eager to flow out and purify your rotten carcass, but I feel that a lot.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. M-More or less than normal?

JUDE
Hard to say when every nerve ending’s on fire. Hard to tell degrees.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Third degree, maybe?

Oh! Sorry, sorry, it was a…

I have a god too, right?

JUDE
Is that another joke?

ARCHIVIST
N-No, I… I’m new to this. Everyone keeps calling me ‘Archivist”, like I’m special, and that… that I serve the Eye. Trying to kill me for it.

JUDE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
S-So… I-It’s like… your ‘god’, right?

JUDE
Oh please, your god is nothing! The Eye, Beholding, Ceaseless Watcher, whatever you call it, that’s all it does, it watches and knows, sitting bulbous and comfortable in the ignorance of infinite knowledge.

I serve a reckoning, a surging tide of destruction and pain.

ARCHIVIST
The Lightless Flame.

JUDE
The Desolation. Blackened Earth. The destructive, agonising heat of burning flesh and land scoured of life. The light, the comfort of fire stripped from it, leaving nothing but the terror of its approach. When it triumphs, it will leave The Eye a burned and shrivelled husk that sees nothing but its own agony.

ARCHIVIST
I, er, I think I… I-I see. So if one… if one wants to watch everything, to know everything and the other wants to… destroy-

JUDE
[Exhales laughingly] You don’t even know what this is about, do you?

ARCHIVIST
So tell me!

JUDE
An Archivist pleading for knowledge. That, oh, that is satisfying to see.

ARCHIVIST
Look, if you’re just… You’re just about my only lead, and if you’re… Just kill me, alright? If it’s so easy? If you’re not going to tell me anything worth my time.

JUDE
Now you’re sounding like an Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
Hm.

JUDE
And now I’m obviously not going to kill you.

ARCHIVIST
Why not?

JUDE
Consider it a favour.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

JUDE
Not for you. For Elias.

ARCHIVIST
Wait, but… [Splutters] I mean, if I serve Beholding or… He-He’s in a lot deeper than I am. I think.

JUDE
The rumour is he killed Gertrude Robinson. If so, I feel like I owe him. And he clearly wants you alive, so…

ARCHIVIST
What, no? But she was the last Archivist, so, y-your… your god… Why?

JUDE
The unfathomable contest of eternal forces is not the only reason I might want someone dead.

ARCHIVIST
So… so tell me the story of why you wanted Gertrude-AH-AAH!

[SOUND OF SIZZLING]
JUDE
Try to compel me again, and I’ll burn it out your mouth.

…

[BIRDS CHIRP HAPPILY]
Now you’re scared. Now you’re getting it. There’s no safety in sitting on the sidelines watching. The audience is only safe when the story isn’t about them.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Fine! Keep your damn secrets.

JUDE
…

No. Maybe I do want to tell you a story.

ARCHIVIST
Well, if it’s not about Gertrude or Gwydir…. And I can’t talk about A- right… Then what?

JUDE
I’m going to give you some advice.

ARCHIVIST
Fantastic.

Well?

JUDE
Aren’t you going to say your words?

ARCHIVIST
[Sigh] Statement of Jude Perry, regarding… some advice. Recorded direct from subject, April 24th, 2017. Statement begins.

JUDE (STATEMENT)
Well, if you smother a flame, it dies. The only way it grows and flourishes is if you feed it. It’s about making sure you find enough fuel for it, and… not caring where it comes from. If you spend your time hiding and fretting about who you hurt, you’ll sputter, and you’ll die as surely as any candle. Don’t be afraid to burn.

The pain is sensational. You feel your flesh cooking, your nerves screaming out as they die exquisitely. Your whole body changes texture as you become that which feeds the fire. In that agonising, beautiful transformation, you can feel it ignite again and again and again.

At least, that’s how it feels for me. I don’t know how it would feel for you. Maybe you get an itchy eye? I don’t care. The point is, whatever form it takes, you have to feed it for it to grow strong. Otherwise you’re the one that gets consumed.

I never hid my flame. Not once. Even before I found my god, I burned as bright as I liked, and those who ventured too close simply ended up fuelling my brilliance. At the time, the closest thing I had to god was cocaine, though I also spent my evenings as an acolyte to alcohol.

But my true thrill was money. Not mine, of course, though I had plenty, but the money of others I could fling upon the pyre of the stock market. Whether it ignited into something more or simply burned down to ash meant nothing to me, it was the thrill that I craved.

This is decades ago now; I was one of the top bankers for… eh, it doesn’t matter, they’re not important. Not to mention that a series of severe fires has long since put them out of business. The point was, that I burned through too much of myself, because I didn’t know what else I could burn. My girlfriend saw it, though she had no idea how to help with the deep depression that had settled over me.

I never slept much to begin with, but… now even the choice seemed denied to me. I was sluggish and listless at work, and people began to notice. My rating began to drop. My colleagues would whisper, and not-so-subtly leave me off invitations for what little socialising there was. I was burned out in every sense but one. And that was the one that saved me.

It was Agnes, of course. I don’t know where she found me, I only remember sitting in a booth with a beautiful young woman who smelled like matches and incense. I was drinking coffee so hot it peeled the skin from the roof of my mouth, but I didn’t care, because looking at her filled me with every kind of heat. We were talking about sacrifice, about power, about… things that even now I struggle to fully understand.

She was soft-spoken and shy, and… I gradually became aware of other people stood around us. There seemed nothing remarkable about them at first: different clothes, different ages, just a dozen or so unremarkable strangers. There was something in their faces, though, a vicious hunger that I knew mirrored my own. And they all looked at Agnes with such devotion.

One of them, a round-faced black woman I’d later know as Sandy, squatted down next to me, and stared into my face. She made a noise of dismissal, and leaned in close to stare at me. She said, “I don’t think so,” and her breath hit me like a furnace. I instinctively thrust out a hand to push her away. But as I touched her face, she remained still, and instead my hand sank into it like softened candle wax.

I screamed, but if anyone heard me, they didn’t do anything. I could only stare as thick rivulets of molten flesh flowed down my arm and onto the ground, and Sandy’s body shook as though with laughter, even as my hand stayed encased in her warped and yielding head. I probably don’t need to describe how much it hurt. It would be a long time before I was able to use the hand again.

At last, I calmed down enough to pull my scalded, wax-encrusted hand from her head. She stood up, pressed her fingers to her face and calmly squeezed it back into shape. It didn’t look exactly the same as before, though there was no mistaking the voice that came from her lips. She turned to Agnes, and nodded her approval. Agnes, for her part, had been talking this entire time, I realised, and somehow I had been listening. I knew what to do.

Nicholas Tregenza was the one that I chose. I had other colleagues I hated far more, of course, and in many ways I might have even called Nick a friend, but… unlike so many of the others, he had a lot to live for. His wife Julie had just given birth to a squalling brat that he’d named Desmond - awful name for a baby - and he’d saved enough money to move away from London entirely. He’d just bought a house. When he spoke to me, he had hope in his face, and so much life in him, it still makes me smile to think about it.

I invited him out for a drink to celebrate his good fortune, got him drunk, and stabbed him to death in a filthy alleyway near the edge of the Docklands. He didn’t even have the wherewithal to look surprised. His skin didn’t yield as easily as Sandy’s had, but I suppose that’s what knives are for, isn’t it?

And just like that, he was dead. And I felt no different. I had a minute of blind panic - how could I have been such an idiot? I hadn’t even planned ahead enough to consider how I might dump the body. I had just been so desperate to stoke the fire I still felt sputtering inside me.

Then all at once, I saw the faintest tongues of smoke creeping around his body. In an instant it was burning, and I was surrounded by that smell of matches and incense… mixed with an oily smell like cooking pork. And as he burned, I felt my senses sharpen. My limbs were alive with searing energy, and my heart was aglow with love; the agonising, terrifying love of something that I knew must be a god. My god. The lightless inferno of desolation, of pain and destruction. My tears of joy were nothing but steam.

Nick’s body didn’t completely burn to ash. Of course not, there needed to be something to identify. After all, what does my god care about death? It was the destruction of his life that it hungered for, the agony and fear of his wife and child, those that loved him, so they had to know that he was dead. Killed and mutilated in a pointless and unforeseeable act of unutterable violence.

Then it was simply a matter of forging his signature on a few documents implicating him in some very illegal transactions to get his assets stripped from him. Oh, and burning down the new house, of course. And with each act of glorious, hateful destruction, I felt my god’s love embrace me, consume me, give me life. Any feelings of pity or mercy I might have had for the poor woman I fed from were cauterised.

Julie’s dead now, of course, though I do keep half an eye on their son Desmond: see if he has anything worth taking from him.

At first I channelled this new energy into my job and my relationship. Gretchen and I had never been happier as I moved from one success to the next. I think she realised there was something else going on, though. Perhaps she suspected how much my mind drifted to Agnes when I held her in my arms. I know she wondered about how I started keeping petrol in the cupboard, and about my newfound love of scented candles.

But she never asked. Never ever mentioned it. Perhaps on some level, she knew as well as I did where we were headed, but there are some things you just have to accept that in the end they’ll cause you pain.

I should have been caught, really. For all that it gifted to me, my faith did little to hide my crimes beyond ensuring they were scoured of physical evidence. And I know the police were investigating a possible serial murderer targeting people in my industry. But for whatever reason, they never gave me a second look. I later learned my new brothers and sisters of the Lightless Flame had taken it upon themselves to help hide my crimes, but even they are only human. Some of them, at least.

I know now they were simply guiding me upon the path to my true epiphany. All this time I was serving my god, but only for my own glory. But with each new gift, each renewal of the fire, I saw how lifeless and hollow it was, how grey and ashen my existence had become. It became clear that, where once I had destroyed to fuel my life, I now lived for the pain that I caused. And for Agnes. My sweet, hopeless Agnes.

And so I ended it. For all the agony and pain on Gretchen’s face, she didn’t seem surprised when I doused myself in kerosene and set it alight. I think she screamed. She must have screamed. But I couldn’t hear it. As the heat warped my bones and bubbled my flesh, all I heard was the loving exaltation of my god.

JUDE
Huh. I suppose you did compel me after all.

ARCHIVIST
B-But what about, um -

JUDE
Uh-uh-uh. Try again and I will actually kill you. I don’t care what favours your boss might have done for me, I will tell my story to your smouldering corpse.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I just wanted to know when it happened, is all.

JUDE
I met Agnes in 1989, and completed my transformation in 1991.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. I-It’s just that you don’t… I mean you don’t seem like you’re, what, in your fifties? Or-Or burnt to a crisp.

JUDE
Wax is remarkably easy to mould.

[SOUNDS OF DEMONSTRATIVE SQUELCHING]
[NOISES OF A HORRIFIED ARCHIVIST]
JUDE
[Laughs] Oh come on! You’re going to need a much stronger stomach than that if you’re going to walk this path.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I mean… I don’t…

JUDE
It’s like you’re not even listening. You have your god, as I have mine. Feed it, fearlessly and without hesitation, or it will feed on you.

ARCHIVIST
But I don’t… I don’t… I mean, I mean, what do I feed it?

JUDE
I don’t know? You’re the one it picked. Not a great choice, if you ask me.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t ask you. Look, is there anything else you can tell me?

JUDE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
Anything you’re willing to tell me?

JUDE
No.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t suppose I could talk to anyone else in your, um…

JUDE
It’s fine, you can call it a cult. And no, they wouldn’t hesitate. They’re not as friendly as I am.

ARCHIVIST
Well, thank you for the… advice. And the dead end.

JUDE
Wait.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm?

JUDE
If you’re really keen to keep chatting to things that could kill you, I might know someone. We’re not on great terms, he’s closer to your lot than mine, but I know where he… exists.

ARCHIVIST
Who… What is he?

JUDE
Calls himself Mike.

ARCHIVIST
Michael?

JUDE
I guess Mike is normally short for Michael, yeah?

ARCHIVIST
Corridors, weird limbs, laughs like a… headache?

JUDE
What? No. He’s pale, got a big, weird scar. Smells of, um…

ARCHIVIST
Oh, ozone!

JUDE
Yeah, that’s the one. Hangs around with the Fairchilds sometimes.

ARCHIVIST
Michael Crew.

JUDE
That’s him. I know where you can find him.

ARCHIVIST
Where?

JUDE
Not for free.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. What do you want?

JUDE
Oh, nothing much. Just shake my hand.

ARCHIVIST
W-What?

JUDE
You hurt my feelings earlier. I want you to shake my hand.

…

Come on. It won’t hurt.

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

[SIZZLING, INTENSIFIES]
JUDE
I lied.

[ARCHIVIST SCREAMS]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Tim?

TIM
Hey, boss. What brings you down to the dungeons? Your office just too full of joy?

ELIAS
Not quite. I heard you’d had some absences. Some unauthorised leave. I just wanted to talk it through with you.

TIM
Right.

ELIAS
Were you sick? If you’re sick you really need to call in.

TIM
Nope. Wasn’t sick. Try again.

ELIAS
Well, you hadn’t booked any leave.

TIM
No, I had not.

ELIAS
So, what happened?

TIM
I hopped a flight to Malaysia. Found myself a hotel.

ELIAS
I see. You were trying to leave us?

TIM
Yeah.

ELIAS
But you’ve returned?

TIM
I… I got sick. The longer I was gone… I felt weak, like, like I was losing myself. You gonna fire me boss?

ELIAS
No. I don’t think that’ll be necessary.

TIM
Of course not.

ELIAS
But let’s be sure it doesn’t happen again, hm?

TIM
…

You do know, right? I mean, you must know.

ELIAS
Know what?

TIM
About this place. About what it does to us.

ELIAS
[Sigh] Tim, this place is very old. It has all sorts of… idiosyncrasies and not all of them are good for the people who work here.

TIM
I think I’d prefer asbestos.

ELIAS
I’ve always found the best way to deal with it is to lose yourself in work. Personally, the comfortable rigour of bureaucracy has always helped me. Perhaps doing a bit of mindless filing will help distract you.

TIM
Yeah. I mean… maybe you’re right.

ELIAS
I’m sure I am. And no more unauthorised absence, okay?

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Oh, er, is everything okay in here?

ELIAS
Yes, Martin, very much so.

[DEPARTING FOOTSTEPS]
MARTIN
Right. Um, I was actually gonna to record a statement, if, if that’s alright Tim?

TIM
Yeah. It’s already running.

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, so it is. Why, why did you tur-

[DOOR CLOSES]
Right. Right.

Martin Blackwood, Archival Assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 0130807, statement of Ross Davenport, given August 7th 2013.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
So I had to find a new gym. It was a shame, really. I loved my old place, and the guys there were some of my best mates, but… it wasn’t entirely my own decision. See, I recently decided to start taking anabolic steroids to supplement my bodybuilding, and the place I used to go had a very strict policy about them. Matt, the guy who ran the place, his partner had gotten deep into them, and when he had a heart attack, Matt blamed the steroids. Since then, you get seen with a needle or pill bottle that’s not a recognised supplement, and you’re outta there.

Still, I didn’t leave because I got caught or anything like that. I hadn’t even started when I left. I just felt guilty. Like it was an admission of failure. Eleven years I’d been going, all natural, and, physically, I was at the top of my game. I did well in competitions, I felt healthy, I was pretty much the ideal weight for my height, but when I looked in the mirror I still didn’t see what I wanted to. My muscles were smooth and rounded, not like the, the veined, bulging forms I idolised. Even when I spent weeks dieting before a competition, without an ounce of body fat, I, I just couldn’t get there. I’d reached my natural peak, and it wasn’t enough for me.

So, I did my research, and ordered a cycle of steroids online. I didn’t want to be unsafe, so I made sure I got a full check-up from my doctor before I started, though obviously I didn’t mention why. Everything came back fine, so all that was left was to find a new gym where nobody would mind me taking them.

This was harder than it should have been, mostly because of my own standards. Plenty of places had an ‘official’ policy banning drugs onsite and just didn’t enforce it. To me, though, the whole point of moving gyms was that I didn’t want to have to hide like a criminal, or pretend to think what I was doing was wrong. I wanted somewhere I could be honest about who I was and what I wanted to be.

Eventually I found it, weirdly enough, in the Yellow Pages. Online searches hadn’t shown anywhere promising near my home on the outskirts of Aberdeen, so I thought I might as well try the phone book. As you’d expect, most of the listings just pointed me towards the their websites, but I spotted a small, square ad box in the lower left corner. It was text only, and read, “Your perfect body is here. Become all you can be.” Followed by a landline number and an address about five minutes walk from me. So I gave them a call.

The voice that answered was rough and spoke in the sort of English accent that usually gets my hackles up, but when I asked him what the gym’s policy on steroids was, he just laughed, and said that if it helped me “perfect myself” then it was more than welcome. I arranged to swing by the following day and check the place out.

From the outside the gym wasn’t much to look at. Just the faded outline of a dumbbell on a grimy window, and the words “Weights and Cardio” just about readable over the door. I realised that I actually passed this place pretty regularly, I’d just always assumed it was out of business.

The door was open, though, so I went inside. It was a hot day, but the air in the reception was cool, tinged with that familiar scent of sweat, and something else I couldn’t quite identify. There wasn’t anyone behind the desk, and the computer didn’t look like it had been turned on all day. I was about to call out, see if I could get somebody’s attention, when I heard the door to the changing rooms open, and someone stepped out.

The man who stood there was, without a doubt, the biggest guy I had ever seen, and bear in mind I spend my time hanging out with bodybuilders. He had to hunch down to fit through the doorway, and was almost twice as wide as I was. Most of his body was covered in a loose tracksuit, and I could see clear stitch marks where it had been enlarged for him. Embroidered onto the chest was the letter ‘J’.

Despite his enormous size, his face seemed pretty normal, even handsome, with the sort of cheekbones and jawline I’d kill for. He smiled when I stammered out a hello, and asked if I was Ross from the phone. Sure, I said, and he immediately launched into all sorts of questions about my workout, what I was looking for, what safety measures I had for my steroids, that sort of thing. None of it was unexpected, and he clearly knew his stuff.

But then he started asking me some slightly more personal questions: why I’d become a bodybuilder, how it made me feel, what parts of myself I hated. It felt a bit… invasive, but I answered honestly, and he seemed satisfied, turning around and gesturing for me to follow as he headed in to show me around.

The gym itself was good, but nothing special. It actually didn’t have much in the way of cardio machines, but that had never really been my priority, so it wasn’t a problem. There was also quite a lot of old-fashioned gymnastics equipment: parallel beams, vaulting horses, high bars, all that sort of thing. It was a huge room, and to be honest, part of me just assumed that they were there to use up some of the space. It certainly had everything I needed, although I did wonder why we were the only ones in there.

It was the changing room that really struck me as odd, though. There was just the one: apparently unisex, though I doubted any women were members. It was decent size, and had plenty of showers, good water pressure, everything you needed. It all seemed perfectly normal, except for one thing.

The lockers were absolutely enormous. They came right up to the ceiling, which was easily twelve foot from the floor, and must have been a good two or three feet wide. Each had what looked to be a unique lock, and only a few of them had keys in.

My guide explained that every member of the gym had their own locker, and kept it as long as they were a member. I asked what happened when all the lockers were taken and he just shrugged. “No new members,” he said. When he shrugged, the fabric of his hoodie moved in such an odd way. It was fascinating, and I made a mental note to keep an eye out for him in the gym, so I could get a proper look at him.

I walked over to one of the lockers with the key still in it, number 31, and pulled it out. I looked back at him, and he nodded. The locker was just as big inside as I’d thought, and went back about five feet into the wall. Forget a workout bag, I could have stored my entire wardrobe in that thing.

After that, I headed back into the reception, and the guy took down my details, I signed a few forms and, just like that, I was a member. He told me to keep the key, and explained that he preferred to have membership fees paid in cash. That didn’t surprise me. I got the feeling that there were a few things about the place that wouldn’t pass any sort of official audit.

Still, it suited me perfectly, so I had no interest in causing them any sort of trouble. I gave him a big thumbs up, and he nodded, turned and headed out the doors, off down the street. It was a bit abrupt, but to be honest, I wasn’t sure he was all there, if you know what I mean, so I didn’t think too much of it. I did kick myself, though, as I realised I hadn’t actually got his name, so ‘J’ would have to do.

With J gone, it seemed like I was the only one there, so I got changed, and got on with my workout. It was a little bit eerie, being all alone in that huge room. I’m used to having the presence of others to motivate me, to push me further than I’d otherwise go, just to show off a bit. On my own, I found myself working out at a much more leisurely pace; I was more careful than I normally would have been, if only because I didn’t have a spotter.

The whole day I kept expecting someone else to come in. We’d get chatting, I thought, and I could maybe ask them to spot me, but the day slowly passed, and I was still alone. Occasionally I heard a noise from the changing rooms that I would have sworn was someone coming in, but there was no-one. Eventually, I showered, changed back, and headed home for a less-than-exciting dinner of chicken and beans.

The next day was the same, and the one after that. No matter when I went, the place was always empty, with no sign of J or anybody else. I wondered if somehow I’d been tricked into paying to use an abandoned gym or something, but it was well maintained and really clean, so someone was looking after it. In fact, thinking about it, I’d say it might have been the cleanest gym I’d ever used, although at the time I thought that was because I was the only one using it.

About five days into my time there, I finally met someone else. Her name was Marie Balandin, and she seemed just as surprised to see me as I was to see her. Apparently she had been using the gym for about two months and had, like me, thought she was the only one. She’d been off to see her sister down in Glasgow for a week, and was a bit shocked I’d turned up in her absence. We got to talking, though, and got on pretty well, so sure enough after a few minutes she offered to spot me.

Truth be told, I was a bit dubious she’d be able to keep up, but a few sets shut me right up. Whatever she was taking, she was a lot further along than me, and by the end I was struggling when spotting her. Still, there was a camaraderie that came from being the only two people in that weird place, and it didn’t take long for us to become good friends, swapping diet tips and theories about what the deal was with J, whose real name, she claimed, was Jared.

There was one other advantage to knowing Marie was around - it helped me ignore the sounds from the locker room. The occasional thumps and creaks. I could just write it off as her being a bit clumsy. Even when I hadn’t seen her come in.

Marie was apparently quite a big deal in some of the international women’s bodybuilding competitions. I’d never followed them, but she showed me a few of her trophies once. The way she trained, though, it was intense, driven. More driven than I’d expect from someone with so many wins under her belt. She’d push herself way past the point of exhaustion every day, and for all the awards her body had gotten her, it sometimes seemed to me like she wanted to destroy it. Often I’d find her staring at the mirror in the changing room, her gaze locked on her shoulders, moving them slowly up and down with a look of disgust on her face.

I didn’t really think about it too much, though, as my own steroid course was starting to show results, and I was spending plenty of time in front of the mirror myself. It wasn’t enough, though. I knew it wasn’t enough. I knew I was going to have to go on another course as soon as my body had recovered from this one. Maybe even sooner.

I don’t know how it would have ended if I hadn’t lost my phone. I don’t have much of a social life, so I didn’t notice it was gone until I was getting ready for bed. It must have fallen out of my jacket pocket when I’d hung it up at the gym. I wouldn’t have minded waiting until the next day, but it had my training diary on it, and I always spent ten minutes filling it in before bed. It was a small ritual, but a important one, and given it was just down the road, I figured I might as well go and see if the gym was still open. Since no-one ever seemed to be around, I figured, maybe no-one locked it overnight.

So at about half past eleven last Wednesday night, I found myself gently pushing open the door to my gym. It wasn’t locked, just as I guessed, and everything inside seemed quiet. I headed through into the changing room, and there was my phone, where it had fallen in my locker. I grabbed it, and was just about to leave, when I heard movement coming from the gym itself, and nearly jumped out of my skin.

I should have left. I should have turned right around and marched out of that place, but instead I felt a… rage building inside me. Whoever was in there, it was almost midnight, how dare they come in sneaking around like that, trying to give me a heart attack! I set my face hard, and walked through, preparing to give Marie, or whoever it was, a piece of my mind.

The lights in the gym were off, but I could see movement over near the gymnastics equipment, someone swinging back and forth on the parallel bars. It was a smooth, rhythmic motion, down and around and up and over, around and over, up and down. Sometimes the movement flew up, releasing the bars for a moment, before deftly catching them on the way down. There was no sound as I got closer, apart from the faint slap of hands gripping and releasing the wood of the beams. If it was Marie, I’d never seen her doing anything like this before. I walked over, and turned on the overhead lights.

It was not Marie, swinging round and about on the bars. Marie only had two arms. Marie had legs. And Marie had a head. The thing that swung and flipped and twirled around the bars was nothing like Marie, though its flesh looked human enough. It did have a smile, though, stitched… right in the centre of its torso.

I screamed so hard I tore something in my throat. I don’t know if it heard me. I don’t know if it even had ears. But it wasn’t alone, and the other things in that place did hear me, because as I ran back and out through the changing rooms, all the lockers were opening. What came climbing out of them had once been people, I’m sure of that, and they called to me, offering to help ‘perfect’ me. To help me achieve my ideal body.

J was there, standing his full height. A distended, jagged body bared in all its twisted grandeur, and he shook his head in frustration. He said something, I think, but I couldn’t make it out. It might have been “too soon”.

I try to remember some of them in detail, the confusion of limbs and joints and muscles, but all I can remember is the happy, joyful way they called to me. Told me that the pain was worth it. It makes me sick that a small, sharp part of me wishes I’d stayed to listen.

I never went back. I called Marie and told her what happened, but she didn’t believe me. At least, I hope she didn’t. Because if she did, then some of the questions she asked make very worried for her indeed.

Statement ends.

MARTIN
[Deep breath] The, um… the supplemental materials that should go with this statement, providing more details on addresses, names, and stuff, seems to be missing, so we don’t have any way of tracking down the gym, or finding out the name the business might be operating under. Not without a 2013 copy of the Aberdeen Yellow Pages. A bit of relief, in some ways. I tried to contact Mr. Davenport about it, and did get through, but he told me to… um, he… he… wishes no further contact with the Institute.

Melanie looked into Marie Balandin, though. In 2011 and 2012, she did really well in several IFBB competitions, but it looks like she disappeared around the time of this statement. No missing persons report was ever filed, but there’s no record of her anywhere after that.

The last official mention seems to be a police report filed on August 23rd, 2013, which lists her as a ‘person of interest’ in a series of animal mutilations on a farm about five miles west of Aberdeen. A bunch of sheep were found dead, with their femurs removed. Look, I, I know we’re not meant to speculate in these bits, but… well, I just… I wonder what she was planning to do with them.

There. Well, that’s, er… That’s it.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MIKE
You’re sure I can’t get you a cup of tea?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, it-it’s fine, really.

MIKE
Okay. You just seem a bit… jumpy, is all.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, I just, er… Coming in I thought… It’s fine.

MIKE
Grand. Er, okay, what can I do for you?

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
ARCHIVIST
Er… You’re… you’re Michael Crew, right?

MIKE
It’s Mike, please.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[SPOON NOISES]
[Leadingly] I’m from the Magnus Institute.

MIKE
Oh, you, uh, yeah, you said.

ARCHIVIST
I, er… I read… You feature in some of our statements!

MIKE
Oh. Statements of what?

ARCHIVIST
You… There was, there was a book? Er, two of them, at least. Er… Ex Altiora, The Boneturner’s Tale.

You, uh, I think you threw a guy off a skyscraper in Paris.

MIKE
Hmm. Last chance for that cup of tea.

ARCHIVIST
I… Where did you get that scar?

[LONG SIGH AS THE SOUND OF RUSHING AIR RISES]
MIKE
And I was trying so hard to be polite.

[THE ARCHIVIST ATTEMPTS A SCREAM BUT TO NO AVAIL]
Hard, isn’t it, trying to ask prying questions at terminal velocity? The air… it doesn’t… leave your lungs like you expect it to. I mean, I know you’re still sat down, you know you’re still sat down. But whether your body knows it when I decide you hit the ground, that’s… that’s something I haven’t made my mind up about, yet.

A little bit of privacy. Is that really so much to ask? I suppose it is, isn’t it? From you and yours at least. We have a lot in common, really. After all, what, what good’s the height, the terrifying draw of gravity, unless you, unless you really know the scale of what you’re facing?

Maybe I’ll let you live, allow you to drag yourself back down to your den, but… you need to learn some respect.

MIKE (STATEMENT)
My scar, wasn’t it? Always the scar. Ironic, in some ways, because that was one the few marks that was only really ever physical. I got it when I was struck by lightning, age of eight. I was playing outside with a friend of mine, and the storm just came on quickly. That’s really all there was to it.

Have you ever been struck by lightning? No. No, of course not. Not unless that’s what happened to your hand, but I’m guessing that burn came from sticking it somewhere it wasn’t wanted. And you still didn’t learn. Well, imagine a white-hot, stinging pain, your whole body becoming rigid, like for an eternal moment you’re frozen, you’re trapped in a statue of yourself with a thousand needles of agony just erupting through you from the inside out. I don’t know if it’s the most painful thing that can happen to the human body, but… beyond a certain point trying to quantify and measure pain, it becomes pointless. That point is being struck by lighting.

The part that always bothered me was how I didn’t remember it. Not really. The sensation’s still vivid enough, but it exists in my mind completely detached from any actual memory. I remember the feeling, but not the event. One moment I’m playing amid raindrops the size of blueberries, and the next I’m in a white hospital bed, that acrid smell still surrounding me, and these lines of agony just carved through my skin.

The doctors told me there would be no long-term damage from my accident. They, they were wrong, of course, but the damage wasn’t something they could see, so how were they to know? Sitting alone in my room, tracing the lines of electricity with my finger, imagining my pain travelling these branching pathways. I was obsessed with it, and every time my finger reached the end of the line I felt a jolt of fear, because I, I knew they went further, went deeper than would show on my skin.

By age ten I was reading everything I could on what had happened to me. Electricity, Lichtenberg’s experiments, meteorology. My parents thought it was simply my way of recovering, of processing my trauma, but there was something else there. I know that now.

Did you know that Lichtenberg figures are fractals? I didn’t, not back then, but as they travelled along the length of my scars, I sometimes think like my fingertips could feel it. When I was twelve, curled under my bed to escape the pounding of the rain against my window, the roll of thunder that just rattled my skull, I began to travel them once again. My hands ran down and along those jagged, discoloured lines, every branch, every turn, my nostrils full of ozone, my veins full of fear. And they didn’t stop. I knew where my scars ended, but… those I traced in the dark that night, they just went on and on and on, far beyond me and to somewhere that still flashed with that unspeakable white light.

That was the night everything changed. Before it I was odd, certainly, probably traumatised, and gripped with a terror of storms, but after that night, things were different. I think, looking back, that was when I called it. That was when it caught my scent.

It delighted in toying with my perceptions, making me believe a storm was approaching, forcing me to run for shelter or desperately hunt for cover without warning. In the dark it would stand beneath my bedroom window, the light flaring, flashing the awful brightness of sheet lightning across my room.

I could never look directly at it. The bright, arcing glow of its insides almost blinded me when I tried. It was almost a man, but I could never be sure. Its strobing, flashing Lichtenberg organs changed and flickered too fast. It… never hurt me. Not once in all the years I was chased by its… malevolence. Of course, I know why that is now, but at the time it did nothing to dull my fear.

I remember when it found out where I lived. I had dreamed that night of shifting, branching avenues of light. I travelled them so fast I could feel my flesh peeling away, leaving nothing but the coursing, buzzing pain within me as I ran down these hideous corridors, aching for an end I knew simply wasn’t there. I woke up screaming into the darkness. Walking to the window, I looked out over the tiny garden below. I was sixteen at the time, and the house I lived in had a small patch of green behind it, just fighting against the pressing grey of the city, the dull glow of the light pollution overhead. But where the back wall should have been, there was a small wooden gate.

I didn’t feel the cold as I opened the back door, and walked out towards it. My… my tormentor was nowhere to be seen, but the blackened edges of the gate showed clearly it had passed by. Was I afraid? It’s hard to remember now, but I have to assume that I was. I mean, I must have been. As I pushed the ancient hinges back to reveal this darkened forest, how could I not have been?

It stretched away forever, I think, or as close to forever as the human mind can contain. The trees were long and spindly, their branches bare and reaching, as they grew down towards me out of the sky, their roots pulsing upwards into this roiling mass of clouds; the scorched and shattered trunks reeking of ozone.

I found The Journal of a Plague Year when I was seventeen. I was lucky, I suppose, that it wasn’t anything worse. It infected the house, of course, brought it crashing down upon my parents in a collapse of diseased brick and septic foundations, but I escaped. And more than that, my eyes were opened to the powers that might save me. Might protect me from a past that followed me so brightly I could barely see it. But I knew that Filth was not for me. Buzzing flies and rot disgusted me, but they never spoke to my soul. I threw the book into a sewer, and began my hunt.

The Boneturner’s Tale was next. Found tucked away in a waterlogged library basement, and deposited back in another. I played with it, but when I tried to shift the bits of myself I thought might set me free, the only shapes I could form with them were laced with that horrid, hunting fractal. My experiments weren’t entirely pointless, though, they did have a truth to me. I learned that I was more than capable of killing, if it brought me closer to what I needed.

I spent some time with a small grey volume, I think it was in Cyrillic, that decided it was at home amongst my bookshelves. I couldn’t read it, of course, but… when it tried to read me back, I buried it on a lonely stretch of moorland.

Finally I found what I was searching for. In the back of a Chichester bookshop, I found my release. Ex Altiora. ‘From the Heights’. The owner didn’t want to part with it, a nasty, grubby little man who stank of sweat and self-importance, but I got it. And at last I had what I needed.

The thing that chased me, you see, it was an arcing branch of the Twisting Deceit, taken shape to follow me. But the shape it had taken more rightly belonged to the sky. To those same vast unknowable heights that blessed book wanted to take me. Falling had always held a special place in my heart, that wonderful border between terror and delight. When my parents would take me to the fair, I always found my way to the highest ride, the one that would just send me plummeting. It wasn’t simply the rush of adrenaline, but something, something deeper, something that just gripped my soul with this ecstatic horror. And I knew within that book was something that could not only release me from my pursuer, but chain my being to that rush of wind and vertigo forever.

I don’t remember that night in detail. The two most important events in my life, and I have clear memories of neither. I know it was the first storm, the first real storm, I had seen for almost ten years, but nothing else remains in my mind. There are echoes of resignation, I think, almost desperation. That can’t be right, though. What reason would I have had not to jump? Not to become as I am now. Perhaps I just didn’t know the true joy of vertigo. It doesn’t matter. In the end I threw myself into the arms of that vast emptiness, and I bound my tormentor to the book.

That’s… that’s all, I think. Since then I’ve embraced my new life; gladly fed that which feeds me.

A… uh, a Paris skyscraper, was it you said? I honestly, I, I can’t say I recall it in detail, but that does… sounds about right. Sometimes it’s hard to keep track.

MIKE
Hm. You know, that was… that was nice. I’m not, not usually the sort for speeches. That was… pleasant change. So.

[LOUD SOUNDS OF RUSHING AIR AND THE ARCHIVIST GASPS]
Off you go, then.

ARCHIVIST
[Breathing heavily] I, er… You-

MIKE
Archivist. Take my mercy and leave. You have touched something few ever walk away -

[DOOR KNOCKING]
I thought you said you came alone?

[GASPING GURGLES]
Hm.

[OPENS DOOR]
Can I hel - UGHH!

[SHORT-LIVED SOUNDS OF ALTERCATION]
ARCHIVIST
Detect… Detective?

DAISY
Shut up. He human?

ARCHIVIST
What?

DAISY
Is this man human?

ARCHIVIST
I… Er, no, I, I don’t think so. Not anymore.

DAISY
Right. What does it do?

ARCHIVIST
Er, he… It feels like, he makes you… Vertigo. Like you’re falling.

DAISY
Has he killed people?

ARCHIVIST
Er, y-y-yes. Yes, a few, I think.

DAISY
Does he need to see you to do it? Does he need to speak?

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I don’t know.

DAISY
Okay.

[ADDITIONAL SOUNDS OF KICKING]
Doubt he can do it in a coma. Now turn that off, and help me get him in the car. Don’t try to run.

ARCHIVIST
What are you -

[PUNCH]
DAISY
What did I say about questions? I said turn that off!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SOUND OF WIND AND VOICES ARE SOMEWHAT MUFFLED]
DAISY
This is it.

ARCHIVIST
[Out of breath] So… so what now? You kill us?

…

DAISY
You think he’s going to save you?

ARCHIVIST
What? What, no -

[GUNSHOT]
[THE ARCHIVIST CRIES OUT]
DAISY
Now… let’s see the bag.

[THE ARCHIVIST IS STILL GASPING]
[SOUND OF ZIPPER]
DAISY
One wallet, brown leather, no cash. One packet cigarettes, Silk Cut. One lighter, gold, spiderweb design. One pocket knife… blunt. Huh. One set of keys to the Magnus Institute. And one tape record -

[VOICES BECOME CLEARER AS DAISY EXTRACTS RECORDER]
You sneaky little freak! You want to record this? Alright. I’d have to destroy it anyway.

ARCHIVIST
What, I? I, I didn’t -

[RUSTLING NOISES]
Pl-Please don’t shoot me.

[SOUNDS OF PANIC]
Why are you doing this? Tell me!

[GURGLES MORE AS DAISY GRABS HIM ROUND THE THROAT]
DAISY
Stop… asking… questions!

That’s how you want it? Fine. You brought a knife. So we go through the voicebox.

BASIRA
Daisy!

…

Daisy, put him down.

DAISY
You been following me, Basira?

BASIRA
Didn’t need to. I know what you do here.

DAISY
He tell you?

BASIRA
He didn’t need to. You’re not that subtle. But I - I always thought you just killed monsters.

DAISY
I do!

[ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO STRUGGLE]
BASIRA
Just let him go.

DAISY
You don’t know what he is. You don’t know what it’s like to have your secrets pulled out like teeth, just because he asked?

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, I didn’t -

DAISY
Shut up!

BASIRA
Daisy!

DAISY
Don’t you… Don’t you dare look at me like I’m crazy! It got you too, or do you think we gave him those tapes because we like handing out evidence?

ARCHIVIST
What?

BASIRA
That’s not how it happened.

DAISY
No? You ask me to take a tape over to this murdering freak, and I’m all set to tear you a new one for it. But then I get the cassette in my hand, and suddenly all I want to do is deliver his tapes, and spill my guts.

BASIRA
So, so now you kill him?

DAISY
First him, then his creepy boss.

BASIRA
This is too far, Daisy. You know it is.

DAISY
He murdered two people, Basira. Maybe more. I’ve done one monster today, no reason not to do another.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t… I didn’t kill anyone!

BASIRA
For god’s sake look at him!

DAISY
Then who?

ARCHIVIST
I thi - I thi - I think it was Elias.

DAISY
Yeah. Well he’s on my list too.

BASIRA
What if he asks?

DAISY
What?

BASIRA
You reckon he can mind control people. Make them tell the truth? Why not try it on Elias?

DAISY
…

He’s got, he’s got his own… He knows things. Would that work?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. I, I could try.

BASIRA
Daisy! This might be our only chance to find out what’s going on.

DAISY
…

Alright. But if this doesn’t work, you’re still dead.

ARCHIVIST
[Exhaling heavily] Yeah. Yeah.

What about Mike?

DAISY
Who? Oh.

Grab a spade.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[SOUND OF TELEPHONE BEING HANDLED - THREE KEYPRESSES, THEN IT RINGS]
OPERATOR
999, what’s your emergency?

ELIAS
Police, please.

OFFICER
Hello.

ELIAS
Yes, I’m calling to report a crime in progress.

OFFICER
Sir, are you in any immediate personal danger?

ELIAS
Ah, y-yes, not immediately, but I will be shortly.

OFFICER
Sir, where are you calling from? I need -

ELIAS
Could I speak to your Chief Inspector, please? Tell her Elias Bouchard is calling. Of the Magnus Institute.

OFFICER
Oh, er… Sure.

ELIAS
Thank you.

[SOUND OF PEN ON PAPER WHILST WAITING]
CHIEF
Chief Inspector Kaugery.

ELIAS
Ah, yes, er, good afternoon. Er, sorry to bother you. I believe you’re looking for Detective Alice Tonner?

CHIEF
Do you know where she is?

ELIAS
I do, yes. Er, she should be here in about fifteen minutes.

CHIEF
I’ll send some officers over immediately

ELIAS
That would be wonderful. Much appreciated.

[PUTS PHONE DOWN]
[FINISHES WRITING, COVERS PEN AND PLACES IT DOWN]
[STEADYING BREATH]
Statement of Barnabas Bennett, as given in a short letter to Jonah Magnus. April 9th, 1824.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
My dear Jonah,

You must help me. If anyone is still here, it is you. I know your work brings you into contact with all sorts of fantastical terrors, so perhaps you might have it within your power to save me from this place. And it was you who warned me not to cross Mordechai Lukas. Advice that I have, I’m afraid, disregarded.

It was a small enough thing, as I believed. A trifling debt I fell behind on. And when he met me in that garden, quiet as it always is with him, he demanded repayment. Well, I took it poorly, and laughed at his insistence. “Bring it before the courts,” I told him. After all, what judge would find in his favour over mine? He simply regarded me silently for many minutes, staring with such a cast to his face that I could feel my resolution beginning to falter. “You shall pay me,” he said at last, “in kind.” Then he walked away.

Let me tell you, Jonah, I believed myself profoundly lucky that day as my hansom deposited me on the steps of my townhouse, a mood only slightly shaken by the impression that, as the cab pulled away, it seemed to have no driver that I could discern.

I am lucky, Jonah, but only insofar as that I never married. Never fathered children. Never let anyone get closer than my brother. The pangs of loneliness I feel are no more acute than my general longing for the company of my fellow man. I have no-one whose absence truly pains me.

And yet here, in this empty world, I cannot but spend these nights, these dreadful, silent nights, huddled and frozen in some terrible fear I find myself unable to name. I almost think I hear the mocking joy of my friends, but there is nobody here, and never shall be again. I try to read, to lose myself in something that is not the absence of humanity. How is it that the books speak to me of my isolation more acutely than the silence? For every treatise I read on this world and its workings, the more I know I am to spend my time left in it without comfort or reprieve. With every tale of love or society I feel more keenly the absence of both.

I went to Egypt once with the Royal Society, to the temple of Ramses the Second in Abu Simbel. The place was remarkable, of course, but what sticks so keenly in my mind is the journey. Two days earlier, on the road from Aswan, I found myself separated from my fellow travellers. I do not not how it happened, but I spent two hours alone there, under the blazing sun, staring across the vast empty expanses of that ancient country. I revelled in the silence, then, embraced the loneliness like an old friend. But now that friend has devoured me, and I shall not emerge from its jaws. Not without your help.

And you must help me, Jonah. If anyone knows of what might break me from this dreadful place, it is you. I know that what is done by those I cannot see might be felt here - I have found glasses broken and pages torn that were not so the night before. It is my hope that if I leave a letter here, in your institute, you might find it, you might be able to save me. I have no other hope.

Please, Jonah, if you have any compassion within your heart, you will not leave me in this place.

Your loyal servant,

Barnabas.

ELIAS
Jonah Magnus did leave him in that place, John. He got the letter, oh yes, and was on good terms with Mordechai Lukas. He could have interceded, perhaps even saved him, but he did not. And it was not out of malice, or because he lacked affection for Barnabas Bennett: he retrieved those bones sadly enough when the time came. Bones that you can still find in my office, if you know where to look. No, it was because he was curious. Because he had to know, to watch and see it all.

That’s what this place is, John, never forget it. You may believe yourself to have friends, to have confidantes, but in the end, all they are is something for you to watch, to know, and ultimately to discard. This, at least, Gertrude understood.

[SIGHS CONTENTEDLY]
Let us begin.

[FOOTSTEPS ECHO AND THE DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Uh, sorry to interrupt, er, J-John’s here! And he’s - well he’s - He seems - He seems angry.

Um, [splutters] I actually think he’s brought a coup -

DAISY
Bouchard.

BASIRA
Easy.

ARCHIVIST
Hello, Elias.

ELIAS
Goodness, John. Whatever happened to your hand? And your neck?

DAISY
[Satisfied smirk] That one was me.

ELIAS
You look a mess.

ARCHIVIST
[Chuckles] I’ve had a hell of a week.

ELIAS
Martin, would you be so good as to fetch Melanie and Tim. I think it would be worth their time to be here.

MARTIN
Er. R-Right. Okay. I’ll just… what, go then?

[FOOTSTEPS, THEN DOOR CLOSES]
DAISY
Okay. Let’s do this.

BASIRA
Er, John? Do you… You want to get this on tape?

ELIAS
No need, Basira. I’ve already got one running.

Now, you have something to ask me?

BASIRA
Go for it.

DAISY
Before I strangle the grinning bastard.

ARCHIVIST
Elias. Did you kill Gertrude Robinson? And Leitner?

ELIAS
[PLEASURED EXHALATION]
That’s… That’s quite nice, actually. Tingly… but sort of freeing. [Chuckle] You know, even Gertrude never properly tried to compel me. I always wondered -

BASIRA
Just answer the question.

DAISY
Or don’t.

ELIAS
Oh, no need to worry about that. I just feel it’s only fair to wait for your colleagues, John. They’ll want to hear this too. Uh, it’s also very important to me, in a personal capacity, that you understand I’m answering you of my own free will.

ARCHIVIST
[Angry] I don’t care!

ELIAS
I know, but I do. There’s so much of this place, of ourselves, twisted by forces far beyond us. I just wanted you to know -

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Uh, okay, okay, so I’ve got everyone, but I’m honestly kind of lost as to what’s happening.

TIM
[Speaking over Martin] Yeah, I…

Oh, Christ, what is it now?

MELANIE
Er, yeah, same question, please.

ARCHIVIST
[Snarling] Elias here is about to confess his crimes.

TIM
What?

MELANIE
Oh.

Good?

MARTIN
Is, is that like, er…

ELIAS
Yes, I was just saying to John. It’s very important to me you understand that no action I have taken has been controlled. I have done everything because I wished to.

DAISY
Get to the point.

ELIAS
[Sighs] Of course, Detective. So. For the avoidance of any doubt. I killed Gertrude Robinson because she intended to destroy the Archives. And I killed Jurgen Leitner because he was… an unnecessary complication. Likely to tell John too much, too early.

MELANIE
Bloody hell!

TIM
Oh, no.

MARTIN
So-So-S-Sorry, that guy was Jurgen Leitner?

ELIAS
It was.

BASIRA
Daisy, where do I know that name from?

DAISY
Oh, the Yousuf case. An Introduction to Higher Anatomy.

BASIRA
Ah… Oh, god! And you killed him? You sure we shouldn’t be giving him a medal?

ARCHIVIST
Very sure.

MARTIN
And Sasha? Did you kill her too?

ARCHIVIST
Sasha died almost a year ago, Martin.

MARTIN
Wh-What?

TIM
Oh, god.

ARCHIVIST
When Prentiss attacked, something else, it… it… it replaced her. I still don’t know how, but -

TIM
Goddamn it! This is… [dejected, exasperated sigh]

MARTIN
[Splutters incomprehensibly] It wasn’t… Sasha?

ELIAS
He’s right, Martin. The thing you remember as Sasha was nothing like her. It toyed with your memory. If I showed you a picture of the real Sasha now, you’d have no idea who it was.

MARTIN
So that thing we saw…?

ELIAS
Precisely. It finally tried to kill John. Then Leitner killed it. Then I killed Leitner. And I believe that brings us up to date. More or less.

ARCHIVIST
What about Michael?

ELIAS
What about him? An irritant. Interfering because he’s bored, and he resents us. He has no purpose -

DAISY
Right. That’s enough for me. Even got it on tape.

Everyone get back.

[SOUNDS OF CONSTERNATION AS DAISY DRAWS A GUN]
MARTIN
What?

BASIRA
Daisy, wait.

DAISY
Out the way.

MELANIE
Now hang, hang on, I thought you were about to arrest him.

DAISY
Get out the way!

MARTIN
John, do something!

[INTERCOM BUZZES AND ELIAS CHUCKLES]
DAISY
Don’t.

ELIAS
…

Excuse me.

[RINGING THAT CEASES UPON KEYPRESS]
Yes?

ROSIE (INTERCOM)
Elias, there are some police officers here to see you?

ELIAS
Ah, yes, thank you Rosie. Er, could you ask them to wait a minute or two?

ROSIE (INTERCOM)
Yep, will do.

ELIAS
There. That should make it even easier for you. Right, Detective? I know you were planning to kill me, but surely an arrest is a consolation prize?

[DAISY’S QUIVERING FRUSTRATION IS AUDIBLE]
BASIRA
Daisy?

ELIAS
Oh, didn’t she tell you why she hadn’t gone back to the station?

Allow me. She rightly suspected that I held evidence of various murders she had committed, and that I sent this to her superiors.

DAISY
…

ELIAS
She’s quite the killer, your partner. All in the public good, of course. And she was correct, I spent some time acquiring that evidence. Or creating it. And while your superiors don’t much care about the killings, the fact there is proof… They’re not happy. And they want you brought in.

DAISY
Heh. So I kill you, and go to jail. I’ll take that deal.

ELIAS
For someone who used to be a detective, you’re remarkably reluctant to think things through. You think you’re the only police officer eager to do violence and call it justice? No, there are plenty of other rabid dogs out there, mad with the hunt. And some of them have signed a Section 31. There are plenty of others your superiors can call on to clean up this mess.

BASIRA
Er… they wouldn’t.

DAISY
Yeah. They would.

ELIAS
And anyone close enough to be implicated. They will kill Basira.

MARTIN
Okay, wai-wai-wai-wait, that’s the police that you’re talking about! Okay, they… they wouldn’t…

Would they?

DAISY
I’m sorry, Basira.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ELIAS
If the officers down there take you away…

Oh, but perhaps I was wrong when I called them. Maybe it was a false alarm.

DAISY
What do you want?

ELIAS
Collateral.

[PAPER IS PUSHED ACROSS THE DESK]
DAISY
That… What?

ELIAS
A contract of employment. For Basira.

BASIRA
Uh?

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, no…

ELIAS
Sign it, and I’ll send your ex-colleagues on their way.

DAISY
Basira, I…

TIM
Don’t do it.

BASIRA
There.

ARCHIVIST
Oh damn it.

ELIAS
Hmm.

[PUSHES BUTTON]
False alarm, Rosie. Could you apologise to the officers for me, and thank them for their time.

ROSIE (INTERCOM)
Oh. Um. Alright…

DAISY
So… what, you’re her boss now? Is that supposed to stop me?

ELIAS
Yes.

MELANIE
Um, I mean, she’s still got a gun?

ELIAS
Ah, of course. Er, sometimes I forget how new you all are to this.

Basira is now tied to the Institute. All of you are. Like fingers on a hand. And I am the beating heart of it. Should I, or the Institute, be destroyed, you will all, unfortunately, follow suit.

MELANIE
Wait, what?

TIM
Yup, that sounds about right.

ELIAS
And it would not be a pleasant death.

DAISY
Bullshit!

ELIAS
Then shoot me. Just squeeze the trigger, and watch the only person you care about die screaming. Your last connection to humanity.

Do it.

BASIRA
Daisy…

[DAISY EXHALES, AND EVERYONE ELSE SIGHS AS SHE LOWERS THE GUN]
DAISY
What do you want?

ELIAS
The police are not the only ones who can find a use for your violence. I’m sure there’ll be plenty here for you to do. Feel free to go where you like in the meantime. I’ll be in touch.

DAISY
You piece of -

BASIRA
Daisy, it’s… it’s okay. We’ll figure something out.

MELANIE
This is insane!

TIM
You get used to it.

ELIAS
Now that’s taken care of, if you’ll all give me and John a moment alone. I’m sure we have some things to discuss.

DAISY
Yeah.

MARTIN
Come on.

[FOOTSTEPS AND DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
So.

ELIAS
Come on, John, there’s really no need for the scowl.

ARCHIVIST
What do you want?

ELIAS
Honestly? To offer some congratulations. You’re doing a lot better than I expected.

ARCHIVIST
Feels like all I’ve managed to do is… not die.

ELIAS
And believe me, that is a remarkably rare skill.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not getting any answers out of this, am I?

ELIAS
The easily digestible sort that wipe away any doubt and fear, and neatly organise your new world into happy little columns? No. Not from me.

These are things you must discover on your own.

ARCHIVIST
Why?

ELIAS
[Sighs] What are you?

ARCHIVIST
I… The Archivist.

ELIAS
Precisely. It is your job to chronicle these things, to experience them, whether first-hand or through the eyes of others. To simply be told, well…

ARCHIVIST
It doesn’t please your master?

ELIAS
Our master, John.

ARCHIVIST
[Emphatically] I never chose this.

ELIAS
You never wanted this, no. But I’m afraid you absolutely did choose it. In a hundred ways, at a hundred thresholds, you pressed on. You sought knowledge relentlessly, and you always chose to see. Our world is made of choices, John, and very rarely do we truly know what any of them mean, but we make them nonetheless.

ARCHIVIST
[Signs heavily] So what now?

ELIAS
You were doing fine before you forced this little scene. I suggest you continue.

ARCHIVIST
So it was you sending me statements.

ELIAS
A little bit of direction never hurt anybody. So to speak.

ARCHIVIST
[Chuckles] Directed towards what?

ELIAS
The Unknowing. I need you to stop it.

ARCHIVIST
Again with - What is “the Unknowing?” Exactly.

ELIAS
A ritual. The Stranger and its kin attempting to gather power enough to bring it closer.

ARCHIVIST
They’re trying to, what, summon it?

ELIAS
Not exactly. These things that touch us, they… don’t have a form of the sort that could exist in physical reality. So the Stranger wishes to remake that physical reality into something closer to itself. It wants to make this world its own.

ARCHIVIST
And how do I stop it?

ELIAS
That is what you need to find out.

ARCHIVIST
No. You are not doing that. I know you have Gertrude’s notes, her, her files. She was working on a way to stop this. Not to mention that apparently you can… effortlessly see anything at any time!

ELIAS
Hardly effortlessly, but I take your point.

ARCHIVIST
So you obviously know how to stop it. You could just tell me!

ELIAS
I could. But I believe that if I did so, you would fail. The Stranger is antithetical to us.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY]
We thrive on ceaseless watching, on knowing too much. What we face is the hidden, the uncanny, and the unknown. If you are to stop them, you need to get better at seeing. And my explaining things is simply not enough.

ARCHIVIST
And you can’t just give me all of the statements?

ELIAS
John, even when you had them all at your disposal, you barely got through one statement a week. Why do you think that is? It takes its toll on you. And I know you’ve had problems with moderation.

ARCHIVIST
So it’s… it’s back to breadcrumbs, and statements, and risking my life talking to things that barely remember how to be human anymore?

ELIAS
For now. I’ll be in touch.

…

[RESUMES WRITING]
Anything else?

ARCHIVIST
Am I… Elias, am I still human?

ELIAS
John, what does human even mean? I mean, really? You still bleed, you can still die. And your will is still your own, mostly. That’s more than can be said for a lot of the ‘real’ humans out there.

…

You’re worried about ending up like that thing, lurking in the dirt under the streets of Alexandria? Don’t be. Just do what you need to, and you’ll be fine. Understood?

ARCHIVIST
I suppose so.

ELIAS
Good. Well, I have work to be getting on with. I’ll send you a Return to Work form, but don’t worry about the doctor’s note. Now, if there’s nothing else?

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Lester Chang, regarding the cleaning habits of his father-in-uh… Er, er, right. Um…

[ADMIRAL MIAOWS, DEMANDING ATTENTION]
Hello Admiral, how’ve you been? I’ve missed you too. I just - I’m trying to…

[Sighs] Fine, you want a belly rub, alri - aaargh. Wrong hand, cat, wrong hand. Ah-hah… just… Sorry Admiral, it-it’s been a hard few days.

[ADMIRAL STARTS PURRING]
Hope I haven’t upset Georgie too much. How can she be mad? She’s got you. Er, yep, that’s your arse. Thanks for that. Look, I know, I love you too, but can I have my lap back? I kind of… I kinda need to-Aaah… Okay. Okay. Belly rubs. You don’t have to worry about all this stuff, do you? A bit over your head, I guess. Bet the world ends, and you do just fine.

[PURRING CEASES]
Oh, right. You done? Okay.

Statement of Lester Chang regarding the cleaning habits of his father-in-law. Original statement given March 5th 1995. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, H-Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
My father-in-law was always a fastidious man. When we first met, I made some jokes about OCD, but a few warning looks from Dani shut me right up. Greg Russell was very tidy and very clean, but balanced out, I always thought, by his wife Sandra, my mother-in-law. I know I’m meant to hate my mother-in-law, but honestly Sandra and I got on fantastically. Both of us were kind of messy, and found the chaos comforting and homely, and we had very similar senses of humour. I never figured out whether she and Greg complemented each other, or drove each other up the wall. When I first met them I was horrified by the way they talked to each other, convinced I was about to witness the messy divorce of my girlfriend’s parents. But twelve years later, they were still together, and I found myself privy to their more tender moments. To be honest, I’m still not sure how healthy their relationship was, but it seems to work for them, and Danielle, my wife, didn’t seem to have inherited any of their more confrontational habits when it came to our relationship.

All in all, I enjoyed seeing them two or three times a year on holidays, but was kind of glad they lived all the way up in Newcastle. Dani would talk to them on the phone for hours, and I’d get all the updates, but crucially, I didn’t have to do much of the interaction myself. And that was more than enough for me.

Then, last year, the… unthinkable happened. Hereditary conditions, right? They… They can really ruin… everything. The doctors told us the chances of it happening were astronomical, like we should be proud of having something so unlikely march in and ruin our lives, but within ten months both myself and Greg were widowers. I think I must have spent more nights that year in hospital chairs than I did in my own bed. But November rolled around, and I had it all to myself. You don’t realise how big a bed can be until something like that happens.

I don’t really know what I expected it to do to my relationship with my father-in-law. I mean, I didn’t really expect anything at all. If you’d asked me at the time, I probably would have said that it should have brought us closer together, that we’d probably end up leaning on each other for support. But that never really happened. Instead, he stopped contacting me completely. He still answered the phone when I called, but was polite when I went to check upon him. Every bit of communication had to be instigated by me.

And he had gotten… cleaner. I didn’t think it was possible, but every time I went over there, the smell of bleach was almost overwhelming. More often than not he was wearing rubber cleaning gloves when he opened the door, and as I walked around I could feel his eyes making note of everywhere I walked, everything I touched. I tried to talk to him about it, suggest he get help, but whenever I mentioned it he would try to change the subject, and talk about television or news, though… if I tried, it became clear he didn’t actually follow either.

Finally, I decided I just couldn’t stand it any more. I sat him down, and told him that if he didn’t talk to someone about his compulsions, I was going to have to set something up for him. I told him that whatever he was doing, it wasn’t the right way to deal with Sandra and Dani’s death. I didn’t handle it well. I was still deep in grief myself, and I almost broke down, pleading with him, telling him it wasn’t healthy. When I said that, he laughed. He actually threw his head back and laughed. It was one of the most unnerving sounds I’d ever heard.

Greg stood up, walked over to a small cabinet in his kitchen, and opened it to reveal row upon row of individually packaged miniatures of gin. He picked up one of them up and inspected it, checking the top and bottom, and examining the seal to make sure it was unbroken. Then, in one swift motion he opened the tiny bottle, and emptied it down his throat. He did this three times before he finally looked back at me. His gaze was softened by the alcohol, but it still looked like an almost physical effort for him to force out the words.

“There is mould in my drain.” That’s all he said. Not all that strange a sentence, all things considered, especially in that context. But something in his face, something in the way he pressed those words out through his lips made me suddenly feel cold all over. I made my excuses and left. He didn’t look up as I closed the front door behind me.

I tried to forget, tried to just move on and ignore it. If he didn’t want my help, then I had no business trying to force it on him. But I couldn’t do it. He was Dani’s father, my last connection to her. I don’t believe in ghosts, or the afterlife, or anything like that, but I knew she would have wanted me to do something. Dani never gave up on anyone.

Work wasn’t expecting me back for another few weeks, and Dani had had a solid life insurance policy, so there wasn’t any problem booking a decent hotel room for a week in Newcastle. I knew that my father-in-law would never allow me to stay in his home, not at that point, but he couldn’t stop me being nearby. So I started to check in on him every day. I brought him hot meals, and talked to him for hours, even when he didn’t want to talk back. But none of it seemed to weaken the cleaning compulsion that had taken hold of him. If anything, after a few days I noticed that I had adopted the habit of cleaning my hands a second time before leaving the hotel bathroom. Greg wouldn’t let me use his.

On the fifth day, I did see inside his bathroom, though. I won’t go into details, but suffice to say my use of it was over his protests. It was just as clean as the rest of the house. Beyond clean, really, as I could see some of the enamel fittings had been worn down, and the tile grouting and sealant around the sink were starting to corrode. I shook my head and turned to leave, but as I did so, I saw small flash of colour in the bath. I pulled back the white curtain and looked down. Surrounding the edges of the plug’s pristine chrome was a small halo of purple. I leaned over to get a closer look. It appeared to be some sort of fungus, scrubbed away so only the faintest traces remained. There was a spongy, fibrous look to it, and I had the sudden image of long, soft tendrils stretching away down through the pipes. It was the colour of a fresh bruise and smelled sour, like old milk.

I don’t know how long I stood staring at it, but when I looked up, my father-in-law stood in the bathroom door with a look on his face that was a mixture of anger and embarrassment. He started screaming at me about privacy and respect, about how he was a clean man, and knew how to keep his house pure. He had a lump of wire wool in his hands, and I left quickly, because…. I was somehow sure that if I didn’t he was going to start scrubbing me with it.

I didn’t go back the next day, both to let him cool off, and because I need to spend some time convincing myself that I shouldn’t just head home and leave him to whatever the hell he thought was going on. I couldn’t get that mould out of my head, though. When I went out to eat, I kept thinking I could smell that awful, sour odour, and I ended up just sitting there, watching my burger as it cooled down, searching its surface for any signs of… something. At one point a fly landed on it, and I just found myself nodding, like everything was exactly as it should be. I don’t know. I wasn’t sleeping well; my sheets felt odd. Slimy, somehow, though whenever I turned the lights on to look… there was nothing out of the ordinary.

I did go back. Of course I did. He wasn’t well. I know I should have done something, forced some help on him somehow, but even now I’m not sure how I could have done it. Greg didn’t answer the door, but it wasn’t locked. The house was still spotless, but the cleanliness didn’t look quite as fresh as it had before. Like it had been cleaned earlier, and just hadn’t been used since then. My father-in-law was sat on the sofa in the same clothes he’d had on the last time I’d seen him. His skin was slick with sweat, and his face was blank. I called out to him and he looked up, but there was… no recognition in his eyes.

I glanced behind him, and saw the bathroom door was closed. Not just closed, but sealed. All the edges and the cracks had been packed through with sealant. He’d even nailed extra wood to the bottom of the door, and sealed all the crevices of that. It didn’t do anything to stop that sour smell, which seemed to pulse and ooze from the doorway, and as I stared at the edges of it, I noticed the sealant was laced through with thin tendrils of purple.

I turned to Greg to say something, to ask a question, but then… I noticed something. I began to realise that, aside from his head, every inch of skin was covered with clothes, with gloves, or a scarf. Whereas before he had been dressing to be sterile, now it seemed like he was dressing to keep covered. And then I looked into his face. I saw the thin crust of purple around his eyelids, the corner of his mouth, and the colour of veins in his bloodshot eyes.

He started to move, to open his mouth, but I didn’t give him the chance. I didn’t even stop to consider alternatives, I just turned on my heel and ran. Some people might call me a coward, but I am absolutely sure those people would not have made it out of that house alive.

I know I should have called someone, told the police or the ambulance service, but I was in shock. I didn’t know what I’d just witnessed. I still don’t, not really. I went back one more time, but I didn’t even get past the front gate before the smell hit me, and I turned back. It looked like my father-in-law was moving, though. I remember, it was Breekon and Hope doing it; they had a depot a ways down the street, and I recall thinking how odd that was, using a couple of local lads with such a small van, given how much furniture they were having to load up from Greg’s house. I asked them about it, about where he was, but they just looked at each other and mumbled something in Polish or Russian, and then they completely ignored me. I was going to press the issue, but I got another wave of that dreadful, rotten smell from the house, and realised I had to leave before I was sick.

The next time I went back the place was empty, the smell was gone, and I never saw my father-in-law again.

Statement ends.

ARCHIVIST
[Heavy sigh] Elias gave me this before I left. Said it might help me “clarify my next move”. I should really have waited, got some rest before I recorded it, or until I’d had a chance to move out of Georgie’s. I’ve already stayed here too long. It’s not fair, putting her in danger like this. Or the Admiral.

God, if Daisy had come while I was here…

I wasn’t sure what Elias meant by “my next move” until the end of this statement. Horrible as whatever it was that overtook Greg Russell must have been, it seems less than entirely relevant to the current situation. But Breekon and Hope? Speaking Russian and helping transport a victim of… whatever dark power rules over disease and rot. And insects, maybe? I was just about convinced that they served the Stranger, and their speaking Russian might well support that if it ties them to the Circus, but… this is not the first time they’ve been delivering things that seem to be tied to other beings. Are they a neutral party, carting round whatever horror needs delivering, just a piece of otherworldly infrastructure? Or are they fully part of the Stranger, just serving as allies of convenience for other things that need to be moved?

Most importantly, though, it mentions a depot in Newcastle. Sasha checked on the Nottingham depot when they first came up… huh, almost two years ago now. A different time. But that had long been gentrified into luxury flats. Sasha never mentioned there might have been other depots, and I never asked. I need to do some digging, because if the place is still there, if - if the building is still standing, I might just have an idea where to -

[SOUND OF KEY IN LOCK, THEN DOOR OPENING]
Er…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
GEORGIE
So, what? You were just packing this away?

ARCHIVIST
Georgie, I just, I needed to do one more.

GEORGIE
I asked you not to record them here.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, I… I honestly forgot. It’s been a hell of a week.

GEORGIE
Yeah, not just for you. What, you think you just disappear for five days, then turn up looking like the, like the end of Die Hard, and I’ll just write it off? ‘Classic John, what an interesting life he must lead.’

ARCHIVIST
No, I -

GEORGIE
Where have you been? And what happened to your hand?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t want to talk about it.

GEORGIE
Tough.

ARCHIVIST
Look, I’m moving out anyway, so just… just forget it. I’m out of your life. Alright?

GEORGIE
No.

ARCHIVIST
No… No, what?

GEORGIE
You leave, you don’t get your tapes back.

ARCHIVIST
What?

GEORGIE
When you disappeared, I took the tapes you recorded, and locked them away. Honestly, I thought I might need them as evidence. You want them back, you tell me what’s happening.

ARCHIVIST
Georgie, please… You’ll think I’m… You’ll think I’m delusional.

GEORGIE
I really hope so, John. Because right now I just think you’re a dickhead.

ARCHIVIST
…

Alright.

[Sigh] Okay. It started when I got that job at the Magnus Institute, you remember?

GEORGIE
Yeah, they do… studies on ghosts and psychics and that, right?

ARCHIVIST
More or less. Well, I was hired as a researcher, and that was fine. I-I enjoyed it. Nothing really paranormal, but life was… fine. It was good.

Then, a couple of years ago, the Head of the Archives, Gertrude Robinson, she disappeared, and Elias, my boss, chose me as her replacement.

GEORGIE
Why?

ARCHIVIST
What?

GEORGIE
Why would he give you that job?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… He thought I could do it?

GEORGIE
You were a researcher, John, I mean that’s, that’s a long way from an archivist. And I know you don’t just have a Library Science degree hanging around.

ARCHIVIST
I - I mean it’s all the same… data and, and papers and stuff. Isn’t it?

GEORGIE
Not really.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… Well, I was given some assistants. Tim, Sasha, and Martin. They helped.

GEORGIE
Were any of them trained in Information Science?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t… No? I mean, I haven’t even got to the weird bit yet.

GEORGIE
Now, I know you talk a good game, John, but hiring you out of the blue as an archivist is pretty weird.

ARCHIVIST
Head Archivist.

GEORGIE
Well that does make sense, actually. In context.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure I follow?

GEORGIE
What I mean is, if there’s no-one above you, there’s no-one to point out you’re doing everything wrong.

ARCHIVIST
Look, can we put my professional competence to one side, please. Because I’m trying to tell you monsters are real!

GEORGIE
Okay.

ARCHIVIST
[Confused] Okay? Okay, what?

GEORGIE
Okay, I know monsters are real and I… assume there’s more?

ARCHIVIST
I… erm, you, you know?

GEORGIE
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Y-You just believe me?

GEORGIE
Yeah, I mean, it’s not belief. I’ve seen them.

ARCHIVIST
You’ve seen monsters?

GEORGIE
Not the time, John.

ARCHIVIST
Right, it’s… it’s just, I think I’m turning into one.

GEORGIE
Really? That’s… not great.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. Ever since I took this job, I’ve felt a compulsion to read out some of the statements. The ones that really touched the supernatural. And when I do… I… I feel them. I feel their confusion and fear. I tried to write it off, but… And, and I can make people tell me their stories. Anytime I ask a question, people just… answer.

GEORGIE
Okay, well that bit… will need some proof.

ARCHIVIST
Fine, er…

What is something you would never choose to tell me?

GEORGIE
When we first met I thought you were putting on that accent to sound more impressive.

Oh. Oh, John… I’m so sorry.

ARCHIVIST
Oh… No, it’s alright. I, er, I mean, I-I guess I did exaggerate it. It’s a long time ago, anyway.

Proof?

GEORGIE
Yeah. Yeah, I guess so.

ARCHIVIST
The Institute is… There are beings. Like, weird gods, or powers, or… something. They’re outside our universe somewhere, but they push through sometimes in the form of these monsters. A-A-And sometimes they choose people to be… er, servants? Conduits?

GEORGIE
Avatars?

ARCHIVIST
Avatars! But they end up getting these abilities, and they lose a lot of their self. Sometimes all of it.

GEORGIE
And you think… that’s what’s happening to you?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes. The Institute serves one of these beings. A-At least, Elias, who runs the place, does. Since accepting the Archivist job, I-I’ve been… different. A-And I can’t quit or, apparently, do any violence to him. I’m bound somehow.

GEORGIE
That does at least explain why he picked you.

ARCHIVIST
Uh?

GEORGIE
If your job is asking questions, I mean. You were always the one who pushed too far, and asked smart-arse, awkward questions. I always was surprised you never got punched.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I think that bit of luck’s run out.

GEORGIE
So, you’ve discovered your boss is evil, making you kind of evil, and you can’t quit, so you… fled here?

ARCHIVIST
And… there were some… murders.

GEORGIE
Oh. Ah. I assume that’s why I had the police asking after you?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, they came here?

GEORGIE
It’s fine, you were asleep. Anyway, that -

ARCHIVIST
Wh -

GEORGIE
- that makes sense, but it doesn’t explain the hand.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, that was… that was one of the other… ‘avatars’.

GEORGIE
Of your guy, or…?

ARCHIVIST
No, no. My… my patron is focused on knowledge and observation. Elias calls it The Eye, but I’ve also heard it called Beholding, or Ceaseless Watcher… a lot of names. This one was… The Lightless Flame, or, or I think she called it The Desolation. It’s burning, destruction, pain. All the bad bits of fire without any of the light or joy.

GEORGIE
Sounds lovely. And you were meeting them because…?

ARCHIVIST
One of the powers, The Stranger, is… Its beings are trying to perform a ritual they call The Unknowing. Apparently it’s meant to remake the world, bring it closer to their master. I don’t know exactly what that means, or where it is, but… I need to stop it.

GEORGIE
Jonathan Sims, are you trying to save the world?

ARCHIVIST
I…

Yeah. I… I guess I am.

But, but I need information, so I’ve been trying to find as many like me as possible. I’ve got a lot of leads: a weird Russian circus run by Gregor, or, or Nikola, Orsinov, and these weird van drivers that seem to turn up everywhere, and mannequins and taxidermy and skin, and all sorts, but… nothing solid.

Elias has been sending me statements, apparently to prepare me, whatever that means, but some of the people I’ve been talking to have been… very dangerous. I’m starting to feel like a bit of a punching bag, to be honest. Would be nice to meet a monster, and not have a scar to show for it.

GEORGIE
Well. Shit.

ARCHIVIST
So… You believe me?

GEORGIE
Yeah. Yeah, I do.

ARCHIVIST
[Exhales] Oh, thank god.

GEORGIE
John. These, these things you’re talking about? Is… Is one of them, like, Death?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, yes. I-I-I think so. There’s one I’ve heard called “The End”. Why?

GEORGIE
…

I’ll make us a cup of tea.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

GEORGIE
Right.

ARCHIVIST
And… you’re… sure you’re okay with this? And with me recording?

GEORGIE
I mean… no? But… You told all your stuff, so… I mean, it’s just fair. I think.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, maybe I know something that can help.

GEORGIE
No, it’s not, erm… There are some things it doesn’t help to know more about.

ARCHIVIST
[Sotto voce] Right.

GEORGIE
So how does this work?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, you just… tell your story.

GEORGIE
Right.

ARCHIVIST
Would it help if I… ‘asked’?

GEORGIE
Erm… Yeah, yeah. Maybe.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. Statement of Georgina Barker regarding the last words of a possible corpse. Recorded direct from subject, April 29th, 2017.

Statement begins.

So… what happened?

GEORGIE (STATEMENT)
It was my first year of university, before I’d met you. I was still studying English at Balliol back then, and trying to hide how poor my family was from everyone else. None of them said anything, of course, but whenever they talked I could count the seconds before I got lost. Before one of them made a reference, or assumed something about my life, and I realised I was out of my depth. I’d learned what a punt was; there couldn’t have been that much more, surely?

I’d read so many books, and nobody knew any more about my subject than I did, but the way my classmates all seemed to read Latin, or reference philosophers I’d never heard of… I’d, I’d never been able to travel outside the country, but everyone seemed to assume I went skiing every winter. I felt I’d wandered onstage without a script. I felt boring, like I was being judged on all the experiences I’d never been able to have. And I always remember their faces when I’d get excited, and a hint of Scouse would creep into my voice. Like I was some sort of… curiosity. I was scared all the time, terrified that someone would see through me, see the fraud I felt like I was.

There was only one person I really felt myself around. Her name was Alex Brooke, and she was a medical student at Corpus Christi. She’d grown up in an ex-mining town in the Black Country, though I can’t remember which one, and she seemed to feel the same way I did. But where I was anxious and self-conscious, she was angry. I never met anyone who could skewer the pompous dickheads like she could. I think she actually head-butted some rich kid from Christ Church once.

She was a couple of years above me, and we met after we both went to some self-satisfied theatre thing in my second week. We simultaneously decided to ditch it halfway through when they started talking about the ‘highlights of the last season at the National’. We went for a drink instead, and just like that we were inseparable.

Alex was always so confident, so… utterly unafraid. I always admired her for that, even if I sometimes found it almost as intimidating as the posh boys quoting Latin. I think she made a point of never letting anything shake her. Even when talking about the most morbid subjects, she never lost that smile.

And as a medical student, there were plenty of morbid subjects to talk about. She’d discuss her dissections with me, I think just to watch me squirm a bit, and talk about how hungry she always got at the smell of preserved brain. Apparently, it’s exactly like tinned tuna. She liked to make that observation just before taking a big bite of her sandwich. I don’t think I actually ever saw her eat tuna any other time. Maybe she didn’t even like the stuff, she just wanted to make a point.

I’m sure you remember all the protests back then. I went on a few marches myself, so it didn’t exactly come as a huge surprise to hear that there was a group occupying one of the faculty buildings. What was strange about the whole thing was nobody seemed to exactly know what the group were protesting, or exactly when it had started. They’d taken over part of the Medical Sciences building, though, so I think most people assumed it was some sort of scientific ethics or animal rights thing. The staff were all very quiet about it.

Alex was loudly angry about it, as was her way. I wasn’t sure exactly what it was about, but reckoned I was probably on the protestor’s side, or close to it, but she was having none of it. Apparently classes were being changed all over the place to avoid that part of the building, and it was playing havoc with her schedule.

One night, when we were both through a few pints in Balliol bar, I mentioned that it was a bit weird there weren’t more police around, if they were illegally occupying the place, and she got this little light in her eye. This wrinkle round the edges that I knew meant trouble. I asked her what she was planning, but she just shook her head, and gestured to get another drink.

I didn’t see her again until the following afternoon. She called me up out of nowhere and demanded we have lunch. I didn’t point out that it was four. There was something in her voice that made me think she hadn’t slept, and not because she’d partied the night away. I pushed a plate of chips and sausage towards her, but she barely looked at it. Finally, she looked up at me, and I saw something new in her face. I saw fear. “They were just… sitting there,” she said.

Apparently, Alex had found her way back into the Medical Science building after putting me drunkenly to bed. God knows what she was planning to do; I don’t think even she was completely sure. Something about catching the protesters sleeping and bothering them the way she thought they’d been bothering her. She’d found her way to the rooms they’d taken over, and was about to go in, when she’d glanced through the small window on the swinging double doors.

They were lying on the floor, she told me. All of them. Not like they were sleeping, but like they’d just… collapsed, motionless, where they had been standing. There were no placards, no signs, just a couple dozen normal-looking students fallen to the floor.

Their chests moved up and down slowly, so Alex was sure they’d been alive, but… their eyes stared vacantly into the space in front of them, and everything else about them seemed lifeless and empty. Some of them were lying with their heads or legs at odd, uncomfortable-looking angles, but they either didn’t notice or didn’t care. They all seemed to have fallen away from a single, central point in the room. Kneeling there was the only figure who hadn’t collapsed.

She was an older woman, Alex said, and was almost completely naked. Her skin was pale and her head was shaved. Like the others, she was still, with only the movement of her chest showing she was still alive, but unlike those on the floor, her eyes moved. They gently swept from one side of the room to the other, like she was searching for something.

Then those eyes settled on Alex, staring in through the door. The eyes didn’t light up, they didn’t narrow, or show any sign they’d registered her existence. They just stopped moving and looked at Alex, as though waiting for her next move. And it was at that point Alex had recognised the woman, and run.

Obviously I wanted to know who the woman was, and I demanded Alex tell me, but she just told me to… Well, she said she didn’t want to say, and pushed her now-cold lunch away from her. I wasn’t letting her get away that easily, and I pressed the point. Who was this woman with the shaved head? Where had she seen her before?

Finally, Alex admitted she’d seen the woman during classes at the Medical Building. Was she a tutor? What was her name? Alex looked me right in the eyes. “They weren’t allowed to tell us their names.”

It took a few moments to work out what she meant, and when I did I felt dizzy. Alex had such absolute certainty in her voice, but she had to be wrong. It was impossible. I had no idea what to say, and all I could manage to do was blurt out, “Tuna?” She stared at me for a few seconds, then shrugged, and looked to the floor.

We sat there in silence for a long time, trying to understand what had just been said. I mean, there was no way that there could be something in a university building causing students to collapse, and nobody was taking any steps to deal with it.

Especially if it involved one of the cadavers, it just wasn’t possible. But the only other explanation I could come up with was that Alex was lying, and I just needed to look at her to know that was even less likely. So I did what I felt was the only thing I could do in that situation. I told her I’d go with her if she wanted to take a second look. She didn’t, but we went anyway.

It was Saturday, and the place was eerily quiet. Even without classes or labs, there were always a few students hovering about, going to and from places, eager to get some work done when everywhere wasn’t so crowded. But all we passed heading into the building was a single police car, sat empty, just slightly mounting the kerb. The door to the Medical Science building stood open; it was a bright day, but the hall stood dark. Alex looked at me, just once, as if asking whether I was sure about doing this. I wasn’t, but… I still nodded.

We stepped inside. The building was cool and quiet, with just the faint drone of the air conditioning in the background. I’d never actually been inside before, but Alex’s steps were confident in their direction, even if she wasn’t confident in her purpose. Finally, she pushed open a pair of doors to one of the teaching rooms, and… I saw the scene she had described.

There were the students, lying on the floor. But not just students. I saw faculty and even a policeman slumped there like the others. What Alex hadn’t mentioned was how grey they all seemed. Not in the sense they were sickly, but… like they’d had the colour simply drained away from them. And knelt in the middle was the woman. Her skin seemed grey as well, but in her it was clearly the colour of death. It didn’t matter that her ribs rose and fell like she was breathing, even if Alex hadn’t told me before there would have been no doubt in my mind what she was.

Her eyes settled on us with that same disinterested stare. No-one moved. Not us, not the corpse, and not the bodies on the floor. There was nothing but the sound of breathing, and maybe the faintest whimpering cry from somewhere among the fallen. Then, very slowly, without any sense of urgency, the dead woman began to stand up. I remember what it was like only vaguely, like trying to describe a dream long after you’ve woken up from it.

As the woman got closer, I could see something in Alex tighten, wind so taut that it finally snapped. She lunged forward, grabbed the corpse by its shoulders, and began to scream into its face. What did it want? What had it done? Demanding answers. The dead woman with the shaved head ignored her grip, leaned close to her neck and opened her mouth.

For a moment I had visions of teeth sinking into Alex’s flesh, of arterial spray coating the clean, white laminate, but all that passed between them was a whisper. Something soft spoken into Alex’s ear. Her arms dropped to her sides, and she turned to look at me.

Her eyes were different. They were still hers, and I could tell they still knew me, but something in them was gone. As my gaze met hers, Alex gave a simple, small shrug, so slowly, it was if every ounce of will she had went into that one small gesture. Her head drooped, staring at the floor, and she gently lowered herself down to lie there.

And just like that, I was on my own. It feels strange to think that even then I couldn’t find the strength to run. If I’m feeling generous to myself, I try to believe it’s because I was unwilling to abandon Alex, or maybe the thing had some power to keep me there, but honestly, it was fight, flight or freeze. And I froze.

I saw the dead woman approaching me. Smelt the chemicals that kept her from rotting, saw her lean towards me, saw her lips begin to form words. In desperation I slammed my hands over my ears and shut my eyes, willing myself not to hear, not to understand. As far as defences go, it was basically nothing, but I still think it saved me, at least a bit. I still heard the words.

“The moment that you die will feel exactly the same as this one.”

And in an instant I understood. There’s no… difference between the present and the future, no other me that will suffer the indignity of death while I live on. It’s all a single moment, and there’s… there’s no difference between that last moment that ushers us out into oblivion and the one we experience now. The promise of a cold and lonely eternity in the grave would have been a mercy; at least it would be eternal. But everything ends, even the universe, even time. And… that means it has always already ended.

I felt every feeling within me boil up: anger, despair, joy, hope, fear. Especially fear. They overwhelmed me, and burned up with the monumental realisation of the scale we existed on. Not the meaningless vastness of the universe, but the… the smallness of it.

And I realised I was in my bed. According to my phone, I had been for several days. I numbly got myself some water, and ignored my weeping mother. She tried to hug me, but her arms just slid off my limp shoulders.

And that was my life for several months. Eventually, the memory began to fade, and I started to feel again. I took the year out of university under the umbrella of ‘medical reasons’, and by the time I met you I was, well, I don’t think I’ll ever be the same person I was before, but I had started being able to actually live again.

I never learned for sure what happened to the people in the Medical Science building, or the dead woman. Someone said a police van and ambulance had turned up in the night, and taken them all away, but I couldn’t find anything more on it. None of them came back to the university, and I never saw Alex again.

There was one thing that never returned to me afterwards, though. Since that day, I’ve never been able to feel afraid. My fear’s just… gone. I’m not foolhardy. I can still recognise danger, and I understand the likelihood of harm, but actual fear? Simply not something I experience anymore. And I’ve never been able to figure out if it was cauterised, or… if it was stolen.

GEORGIE
So that’s it.

ARCHIVIST
I see. That, um… I mean, that -

GEORGIE
Explains some things?

ARCHIVIST
A bit. I can’t believe you never told me.

GEORGIE
Well, I can’t believe you didn’t tell me you were on the run from the police over two murders, so…

ARCHIVIST
No, you - You’re right, I…

GEORGIE
Are you alright? You look like you’re about to keel over.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, no, I- I just… Ther-There’s been a lot of statements, in not a lot of time. I’m… I’m exhausted. I kind of wish I knew, uh, knew even one person who genuinely wasn’t involved.

GEORGIE
Maybe that’s why you thought of me?

ARCHIVIST
Hm?

GEORGIE
I mean, it’s been years, and there must be other old friends you lost touch with. Maybe you did know?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, maybe. I, uh…

GEORGIE
[Sigh] It’s alright, John, you sleep. I’ll tidy up here.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I, uh… Yeah.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Right. Statement. Another statement. [Sigh] Fine.

Martin Blackwood, Archival Assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 9770211, statement of Luca Moretti, given November 2nd, 1977.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
There is no glory in war. I learned that early. Maybe there was once, riding out onto the battlefield with your banner held high, a warhorse below you, and a lance in your hand. But no, probably not even then. It’s just fear. Fear that some unseen enemy might end your life from a mile away with a tank round or an artillery shell. Fear that you might look another man in the eyes the moment before he pulls a trigger and takes your life. Fear that you might have to look in his eyes before you do the same. I joined up because I wanted to serve my king, because I thought that out there, on the field of battle, I could be the hero my country needed. But it turned out I was only ready to kill for my country right up until the moment I had the chance.

They never tell you how difficult it is to take a human life. They tell you the enemy are monsters, an evil force sweeping across our fair land, burning and murdering because that’s all the enemy knows. They try to keep you far away, firing round after round from whatever hidden spot you’ve found. All so you don’t look your enemy in the eyes. Because they’re just people.

That’s not to say I never killed anyone. I honestly don’t know. A battle is a terrible, confusing place. I fired my gun plenty, and many Allied soldiers ended up dead. I can’t be sure none were because of me. But, I never took a life with full knowledge and intention. Not during the war, at least.

I wasn’t a fascist. I know that’s always the claim people try to make, but I honestly had no time for Mussolini. I’ll admit there was a certain poetry to D’Annunzio’s words, which brought me close to believing in him on occasion, but when he made way for “Il Duce” [“The Leader”, title for Benito Mussolini as head of the Italian Fascists] I rapidly lost interest. I had no time for that bald, pouting fool, strutting about and preening. I, like my father, served for the King. I wasn’t happy he had thrown his lot in with the Fascists, but loyalty was always a failing of mine. That said, I despised Communism, and under Mussolini’s rule the military enjoyed freedom and prominence as never before. I ignored, though, the rumours of what my brothers-in-arms were doing in Libya.

By the time the war broke out, I had been a soldier for most of my adult life, but I had never seen full combat, despite having made the rank of Maresciallo capo [“Chief Marshal”, non-commissioned officer rank, roughly equivalent to Sergeant Major in the UK / US Army.] in the 4th Alpini. We were trained in mountain warfare, some of the toughest men I ever knew, and eager to see combat, even if to do so, we would stand side by side with Nazis. True battle was worse than I could have imagined. We were trained and equipped to fight in the Alps, in mountain terrain, but our commanders would send us against tanks and motorised infantry in wide open plains, with no proper cover or elevation. For all our leadership hungered for war, they had little idea, it seemed, how to wage it. For my part, I discovered that all my dreams of honour were only that. The war tested my mettle, and it broke.

When the King broke with the Fascists and signed the Armistice with the Allies, our erstwhile German companions wasted no time turning on us. I spent the last two years of the war in a Nazi prison camp, but strange as it feels to say, it wasn’t actually that bad. They treated us well enough, and having fought together, the abuse was minimal. It was only in the last few months, when our hosts were being pressed by the Russians, and resources became scarce, then we suffered. But this is not what I care to dwell on. It was what happened after we were released that brings me to tell you my story.

You cannot imagine the chaos immediately after the war was lost. Unlike Germany, carved up between East and West, Italy’s division was… messier. There was the South, that had had surrendered with the King in 1943, and the North, occupied by the Germans for the most part, but some of our forces had still fought alongside them in Mussolini’s puppet state. To give you some idea of what I was returning home to after the war: Il Duce died in April of ‘45 and the Germans surrendered in May, but the official peace treaty between Italy and the Allies was not be signed until 1947. The country was split, divided and bleeding. There was ‘interim government’ and ‘moves to restore order’, but nobody really knew what was going on. There was no debriefing, no official response to our release; I didn’t even know I was part of a military that still existed. I had to make my own way back to my home near Teramo, walking, hiding and riding in whatever vehicle had a driver who took pity on me.

I don’t know what I expected to find when I finally arrived home. Whatever it was, it wasn’t my old Alpini comrades, uniforms torn and fading, preparing what weapons and equipment they could find for an expedition into the mountains. My home was in the foothills of the Appennino Centrale, and many of the men I served with I had known since childhood. I was glad to see them alive, and they greeted me with smiles and open arms, but there was something tight about their faces that filled me with a faint dread.

I asked what they were doing, and their eyes fell to their guns. Deserters, I was told, in the mountains. Attacking people, and stealing from nearby villages. We were going to find them, and take care of them. I started to protest, sure there must be others better suited to the task, but even before I spoke I knew this wasn’t true. Instead I asked if the deserters knew the war was over; it was likely they no longer needed to hide. Again, a shake of the head, and there was quiet for a few seconds. It was Antonio Cannavaro, one of my oldest friends, who finally spoke up. The deserters, he said, had gone rotten. Not mad, or desperate. Rotten. Sono andanti marcio. [Literally: “They are going rotten.”]

I suppose I could have left them to it. Turned my back on them, and tried to leave my war far behind me. But I don’t think that was ever really an option. I told them I was coming, and Antonio nodded his head. There was no joy in the movement. He was a huge bear of a man, was Antonio, but I saw his hands shaking as he checked his weapon yet again.

My father served his King in the Great War. He told me tales afterwards, stories of courage and heroism, of men fighting for the glory of their country. I now know these stories were lies. But when he was drunk, as he was more and more towards the end, he told other stories. Stories that didn’t always make sense. Once or twice he had talked to me about the ‘wild deserters’. These men, he had said, had fled from their units, but rather than trying to escape behind the lines, where they might be caught and shot, they would run into the battlefields, into no man’s land, and tunnel under the mud and carnage. They lived down there, so he said, desperate, ragged and barely human. At night you could hear them creeping around the battlefields, stealing what they could, and dragging the bodies of the dead down into their dens. If you were quiet, my father would say with a shudder, you could hear them eating.

I didn’t mention these stories to my companions as we started to trek up the slopes of Monte Vettore. They clearly had enough on their minds, eyes narrowed against the glare and mouths pressed tight. We didn’t talk about the war. There was no question I could have asked that did not risk breaking the fragile solidarity of our small band, but as I walked alongside them, I knew that each of them was dwelling on ghosts and stories of their own.

The first sign we saw of our quarry was a thin column of smoke ahead of us, clear against the deep blue sky. It was a mountain cabin, not uncommon in these parts, with a well-built chimney stack gently announcing its warmth. In front of the door sat a woman with coarse, dark hair, built almost as solidly as the chimney, and quietly mending a thick, woollen shirt. As we approached she looked up and we saw, in the middle of her throat, a ragged bullet hole. Her eyes were cloudy and unfocused as she got to her feet and began to walk towards us, blood still trickling from her throat.

I heard a scream, and it was so hoarse and inhuman I assumed for a moment it must have come from this half-dead thing with its ruined throat. But it was Antonio. His face was ashen, and for a second it seemed he was about to drop his weapon and run, but instead he barrelled past me, tackling the woman to ground. There was an awful snapping sound, but her limbs still moved and flailed weakly as Antonio stood, and began to stomp down with all his weight. The others joined in, shouting or screaming, kicking and beating until the corpse was still. I was the only one left standing at the side, staring down at the beaten and bloody mess of… something. None of us said a word.

The silence lasted for about four seconds. Then there was the gunshot. It echoed around the mountain for far longer than it had any right to. We scattered immediately, instincts triggering to find cover. Too late for poor Alfredo, a small man whose sister I had once courted long ago. He remained stood exactly where he’d been when the bullet went clean through his skull. It was almost five minutes before he finally collapsed, but we watched for far longer to see if he got up again. He didn’t.

That was the turning point. Not the dark-haired spectre of death, but that sudden, unseen death. Uncaring savagery that could be neither foreseen nor avoided, only awaited. From that moment the mountain was no longer the place where we hunted. But neither was it somewhere we were prey. It was simply the place we were going to die.

We continued like this for several days. We saw no other signs of life, or whatever passed for it up there on the mountain. The only indication we saw that we weren’t utterly alone would be the periodic sound of a gunshot, as another of our number fell. The stark terror was evident on every face, but none of us even considered turning back. Something in us just knew that we were far beyond anything we could control, and if we were leaving this mountain alive, it would not be through our own decision.

By the time we found the cave, it was only myself, Antonio, and a young lad from the village, who should not have joined us in the first place. I never learned his name, but he’d been a drummer in the fanfara [a military brass band], or so he said. Judging by how he held his rifle, I believed him. I would have laughed, told him he would have fared better with his drumsticks, but the joke died on my lips.

The smell that came from that cave was far beyond anything I had experienced in the war. The jagged hole into the cliff face oozed bitter, icy cold, and to call it the smell of death would miss the point of it entirely. It was the smell of our death. Antonio turned to me without a word, gripped my hand in his, and kissed me once on the forehead. Then he walked to edge of the cliff and hurled himself over the edge. I didn’t look down after him. Truth be told, I envied him his resolve.

I walked into the cave. The drummer boy might have followed after me, or he might have joined Antonio. I never turned around; he was the last thing on my mind. The cave was a long way from natural, forming a smooth but uneven tunnel heading deep into the mountain. It narrowed slightly as I descended, until I was stooped, half-walking, half-crawling along the floor. The smell seemed milder inside, but I don’t know if it was truly less, or I had already grown accustomed to it.

The texture of the earth beneath my hands changed so gradually I barely noticed, and the torch I had brought was too weak to show anything more than a few inches in front of me. The first moment I realised what the tunnel had become was when I placed my hand fully over the cold and clammy skin of someone’s face.

I pulled my hand back with a cry, and pushed my torch down to focus on what was below me. It was a corpse, as I had thought. Its eyes were closed and its face was serene, but it was dressed in uniform, cut through and black with blood. It was Italian, I thought, but an old design, and not one I really recognised. Shining my torch around, I saw more of them, half-buried in the walls and ceiling. More dead faces, more uniforms, and not just Italian, either.

I pressed on, trying to find gaps between the bodies where it was still dirt, trying to avoid touching them. But those spaces became smaller and smaller, and the corpses were now piled two or three deep. It wasn’t long before the one way forward was clambering over them, climbing along their stiff, unfeeling limbs.

When they all opened their eyes, it was unhurried and deliberate. They were already focused on me, as though they’d been following my progress from behind closed eyelids. They were not cloudy like the woman at the cabin, but sharp and clear, slowly swivelling in their sockets to watch me climb over them. They did not move. I believe, though, at one point they started to sing, but that might just be in the nightmares I have since endured.

When I reached the end of the tunnel, the deserter was waiting. He had his rifle pointed at me, and sat in a tiny hollow with nothing but a small pile of soiled bandages and two dead rats. He was young, and so thin that for the briefest of seconds I felt a deep pity for him. The mud caked on his face had lines carved through it where tears had fallen, but they hadn’t been shed for me. He lifted his rifle, and prepared to kill me. I tried to raise my own, knowing with a perverse sense of relief that I was too slow. He would pull his trigger before I would pull mine. It was over.

But as I lifted the barrel to fire, I heard shots, five or six of them, ringing out in rapid succession. In the closeness of the tunnel, they were deafening. The deserter slumped. He was dead the moment the first shot sounded. Maybe even before that. For all his gaunt frame and emaciated body, he hit the ground with a weight that seemed to shake the mountain. I’d never before witnessed a firing squad, and I never care to again, although of course, I was alone in the tunnel.

I left the deserter’s corpse there. Left the cave and the mountain. Left my home and my country. Eventually I came here, and I never want to return. That is my story.

MARTIN
S-S-Statement… done.

[HEAVY BREATHING & TREMBLING AS MARTIN STEADIES HIMSELF]
I don’t like recording these. There. I-I said it. I’m sorry whoever’s listening to this, I know it’s unprofessional, but they f… I don’t like it. I guess we’re past professionalism now. Probably. I don’t even know why I’m still doing them, since John’s back now. Well, ‘back’ is a strong term.

[Sigh] I guess just nobody told me to stop? Melanie’s been asking about cases related to wars, so I thought… I mean, it’s not even like there’s any follow-up I can do on an unofficial Italian military operation from a period in Italian history where there’s basically no records.

[Sigh] John came by. He asked Melanie to see what she could hunt down about the owners of an old depot up in Newcastle, and asked me to get him a couple of books on taxidermy from the library. Then he left. Again. I mean, I’m glad he’s back, and I guess he seems to trust us a bit more, now, but… And - And I’m glad we can help, of course I am. It’s just what he’s doing seems really dangerous. And I get that he’s worried about us. I mean, we worry about him as well.

I worry.

And we should just -

BASIRA
Could you pass me that pen?

[NERVOUS, SURPRISED SPLUTTERING]
MARTIN
Oh, er… Hi Basira…

Um, how long have you been there?

BASIRA
Erm, I don’t know. Couple of hours? Why?

MARTIN
Y-You didn’t say anything.

BASIRA
Yeah, I was reading.

[MARTIN CLEARS HIS THROAT]
Did you need me?

MARTIN
No… erm, I just… er, feel a bit… self-conscious?

BASIRA
About what?

MARTIN
Well, I was just, doing a statement and notes and…

BASIRA
Ah. Was it… good?

MARTIN
You weren’t listening?

BASIRA
No, I was reading.

MARTIN
I just…

BASIRA
Erm, do you want me to find somewhere else to read? Somewhere more… I dunno, obvious?

MARTIN
No, sorry, you just surprised me, is all.

BASIRA
Sorry.

MARTIN
It’s okay.

What are you reading?

BASIRA
Introduction to Alchemy. It’s, um, really interesting, actually - you know a lot of the symbols people use come from astrology and alchemy. Like the symbol everyone thinks is the female symbol is actually the old astrological sign for Venus, which means it also means copper in alchemy. Which is kind of… What?

MARTIN
Nothing… [nervous laugh] you just… You’ve been reading a different book every time I’ve seen you for the last week.

BASIRA
Well, it’s my job now.

MARTIN
Kinda thought your job was to be a hostage.

BASIRA
I mean, I guess, but… what? You want me to just sit, and mope around? There’s a huge library up there…. and this stuff is kind of fascinating.

MARTIN
Shouldn’t you be, I don’t know, trying to escape?

BASIRA
Sure. How’s that gone for you?

MARTIN
What?

BASIRA
The way Tim tells it, we’re all in the same boat here. So, how’s your escape plan coming?

[NOISES OF CONFUSED EXASPERATION]
MARTIN
How… Doesn’t it bother you?!

BASIRA
Of course it bothers me, but so do a lot of things I can’t change. So you make the best of things.

And, hey, you never know, maybe there’s something in these books that can help us.

MARTIN
That’s… huh, that’s not a bad point, actually.

BASIRA
…

So, er… Do you want me to move?

MARTIN
No, no, I’m just about done. You keep reading.

[PAPER SHUFFLING]
Not much else for us to do.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Alfred Breekon, regarding a new pair of workers at his delivery company. Original statement given May 15th, 1996. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Three years. It was three years ago when they arrived. It wasn’t much, the little delivery company I’d built up, poured my heart and soul into. I don’t know why they wanted it. But they did. “Breekon and Sons”, I’d always wanted to call it, but I was always unlucky when it came to love, so in the end I called it “Breekon and Hope”. Just my own little joke. Backfired on me plenty; everyone always asking if I had to run things by “my partner”, and often I was too awkward to correct them. I sometimes used to disappear into the back room, pretend I was making a call to “Hope”. It was harmless enough, though, and the company was growing well. We had opened a few new depots, and had a few dozen drivers, making deliveries anywhere from Aberdeen to Penzance. Life was pretty good, to be honest.

When they turned up at my office, I remember it was their shadows that I saw first. It was early evening, and the sun wasn’t shining in through the window, but still their shadows fell across my desk, thick and dark as they loomed over me in the half-light. They wore featureless grey overalls, and even now I’m not sure I could easily describe what they look like, other than to say they seemed solid. Somehow heavier than the world around them. They stared down at me, dark eyes sizing me up as I coughed gently, and asked if I could help them.

They traded a few words between them in another language, I think it was Russian, before turning back to look at me. At this point I was pretty sure these guys must be Mafia, probably trying to shake me down, so I waited until it was clear what they wanted from me. But the silence just stretched on and on and on, and eventually I cracked; held out my hand: “Arthur Breekon at your service. Who might you be?”

There was another pause, shorter this time, before the slightly taller of the two - at least, I think one was taller - turned to his companion and opened his mouth. “Breekon at your service. Who might you be?” Instead of the Russian accent I had expected, he spoke in a broad, cartoonish Cockney that I assumed must be a mocking impression of my own voice. I began to stand up, to tell these jokers to get out of my office, but as I did, the shorter one turned to his companion, and in a similar voice replied, “The name’s Hope. What can I do for ya?”

I don’t know why this shook me so much, but it stopped me right in my tracks. I just watched as they repeated these two phrases back and forth between themselves, introductions made over and over again. Finally they stopped, and turned back to me. I had no idea what was going to happen or what I was meant to do, but there was something profoundly unnatural about these two figures, and I had no intention of pushing too far and finding out what it was.

It was a sunny day in June, and the window was open to a bright field behind the building. I didn’t notice the butterfly until it had landed on the one who kept calling himself ‘Hope’. With a slow, languid motion he picked it up. He looked at it for a couple of seconds, then looked at me. Then he ate the butterfly. Not slowly, or particularly fast. He just placed it carefully in his mouth and began to chew.

As his partner did this, the one who seemed to have taken my name held out his hand to me. “Keys,” he said, this time the word still lightly accented with Russian. I gave them to him. I took the keys to the oldest of the vans, and just handed them over. Anything to get them out of my office. I’m not a small man, you understand, and I’m not used to feeling intimidated. I got into plenty of scrapes when I was young, and there was a small part of me screaming to teach these disrespectful punks a lesson. But when this other Breekon took the key from me, what I felt beneath the skin of his hand convinced me I had made the right choice. Then they turned and left.

I wish I could say that was the last I saw of them, that they stole one of my vans and drove away, never to return. But they did return. And even worse, they started to make deliveries.

They were innocuous at first; the right things delivered to the right people on time. Then it became the right things delivered to the wrong people. Then the wrong things being delivered. Then the very wrong things. Strange folk began coming around asking for Breekon and Hope, and when I told them who I was, they just shook their heads, and I knew who they were after, They often brought crates or boxes with them and, once, a sack full of hair. I never opened any of these, or looked to closely when they came around. There was something in me that wanted to believe if I was smart, and kept my head down, maybe I could somehow get through it. I couldn’t accept that something like this could just turn up, and casually destroy me without cause.

If there was a reason they’ve picked me, I have never found out. I have asked them, but unsurprisingly got no answers. There must be other delivery companies, surely, and it was the deliveries they seem to focus on. They’re out most of the day and night, usually, allowing me some rest away from their horrid blank faces. But they always come back. When not on delivery, they stand in the break room, facing the wall. Sometimes they laugh, suddenly and abruptly, as though they’ve both simultaneously thought of a hilarious joke. It sounds like the laugh track in an old sitcom, and cuts off almost immediately. When I get fitful sleep in the small fold-out cot I keep in my office, I can sense them standing there, looking at me. I don’t go home anymore. I’m afraid of what might happen if they followed me outside of a professional environment. My other drivers have been disappearing.

For all that, they do seem to have friends, or at the very least, people who come to see them regularly. Most I don’t remember, the features difficult to put together from memory, but I know that more than once I’ve seen the pair of them talking to a figure at the other end of the depot. They always make sure these meetings are in shadow, and I can never get close enough to see exactly who they’re talking to, but I think they’re dressed like a circus ringmaster.

And so it’s been going for the last couple of years. I think I might even be paying them, though it’s hard to tell. The account book, as well as the shipping logs and manifests, keeps filling up with entries I don’t remember, although it is definitely my handwriting.

I am not sure how long this might continue for. Maybe years. Maybe forever. Whatever fight was in me at the beginning is gone. Occasionally, when they first began to take over, I would start to march up to them, my mind whirring, filled with demands and threats and ultimatums. Then they’d look at me with those blank, impassive eyes, and I’d feel all my resolve simply melt away. Now it’s just a memory. A daydream. I’ve forgotten the taste of determination. It won’t last forever, though, because I think they’ve decided they’re done with me.

I came into work yesterday to find a box sat on my desk. The address and label had been completely scribbled over in black marker pen, and it was impossible to tell from what was left where it had originally been sent to. It didn’t matter, though, because on top of it, written in my handwriting with a vicious precision I’ve always lacked, were the words: “Return to Sender”. They’d put it there for me. They’d never delivered to me before. The package was still, but every part of me recoiled from it. I slowly walked forward and touched it, but I did not pull away the tape. The day was warm but the box was ice cold, and the cardboard was spongy and strangely yielding. It didn’t move when I pressed it with my hand, but there was a sound like shifting sand. I don’t know what was inside. I don’t what is inside. It won’t be right. It’s not my package. I didn’t send it.

I tried to look it up in the logs. I found it easily enough. Everything seemed to be in order, except the item description. That line simple read, “Goodbye”. God knows how long I spent staring at it. Nothing about that box was right. The card fitted together at slightly-off angles, and the corners were damp, like it had been left out in the rain. The table seemed to bend slightly under its weight, yet when I tried to move it, it seemed so light I doubted for a second it could have anything inside. Even then, I never dared to fully lift it up or pull it towards me. There’s a gravity there, though, and I don’t know how much longer I can resist its pull.

My brother came to you people about ten years ago. He had been having visions of demons and witches, and came discuss them with you. He never recovered, but he always told me that there was little quite as freeing as making a statement for you. So I snuck away. But I need to be back soon. It has been freeing, talking to you, but not enough to free me from my fate. I am not the sender, but I am going to open that package. I know I leave Breekon and Hope Deliveries in safe hands. Safe hands where the skin feels wrong.

Statement ends.

ARCHIVIST
I found Mr. Breekon. The real one. It’s strange, for all he talks of worrying that what’s in the box will get him, all the bite marks appeared to be coming from the inside going out.

What does it mean when death no longer fazes you, even the most grotesque? Perhaps it’s a sign I’m adapting to my new situation. Useful, I suppose, but…

I was right about the Newcastle depot. It’s still here, and it seems like it’s been deserted for a long time. There’s a pile of mail at the door almost two feet high, and today it was topped with a crisp brown envelope addressed to me, containing this statement. A gift from Elias, no doubt. He could have sent this to me any time, filled me in on Breekon and Hope, but no. I had to find it myself, just in time for him to show me he knew all about it. Cocky prick.

Still, there’s not actually as much information here as I’d hoped, either here or in the statement. It shows that Breekon and Hope didn’t own the company, I guess. That those aren’t their real names. It does seem to confirm that they have some connection to the Circus, judging by clandestine meetings with someone apparently dressed as a ringmaster - as if it’s not obvious if you’re dressed as a ringmaster! And their apparent Russian origins. I say ‘origins’, perhaps… perhaps it’s just the last link in a very long chain. If the Circus is connected as closely to the Stranger and the Unknowing as I believe, I should probably keep an eye out for delivery vans.

The other useful thing I found here was one of the old log books. It lists deliveries quite a ways past the point where the company technically ceased to exist, right up to 2013. I need to go through it in more detail, but probably not here. This place… this place is done with its story. It’s just… empty.

I don’t like it.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SOUND OF STRUGGLING AND HANDCUFFS]
SARAH
Who the hell are you people? Let me go!

[HANDCUFFS CLICK TIGHTER]
DAISY
Like I said, you’re under arrest.

SARAH
What for?

DAISY
Shut up. I’ve -

[Exasperated] You’re recording again?

ARCHIVIST
What? It’s hardly your first crime on tape, and if we’re going to question her…

DAISY
Is that what we’re doing?

SARAH
You’re making a mistake, is what you’re doing.

ARCHIVIST
Ohhh…. You thought we were going to, er, y’know, kill her.

DAISY
El-Elias didn’t say.

ARCHIVIST
No, he doesn’t, uh… He’s not big on micromanagement.

SARAH
It’s Elias now, then?

ARCHIVIST
[Whispering] What?

DAISY
Get on with it.

ARCHIVIST
Not a fan of taxidermy?

DAISY
Don’t like wasting time.

SARAH
Last chance.

ARCHIVIST
I… I really don’t want to be interrogating her where those… a-animals can see us.

DAISY
They’re dead. They can’t see us.

[SARAH SNORTS]
ARCHIVIST
Yeah, it would just be a bad idea.

[Deep breath] What’s your name?

SARAH
Sarah Baldwin.

ARCHIVIST
Are you the same Sarah Baldwin that disappeared in Edinburgh in August 2006?

SARAH
Some of her. Skin. A few memories. Not on the inside.

DAISY
Hand us that knife, and I can check. Smells rank enough already.

ARCHIVIST
No, not… not yet.

Did you go as part of a filming expedition to the Cambridge Military Hospital?

SARAH
A mistake. Thought I’d have fun with some over-curious idiots, but it turned out I had trespassed. I paid for it.

ARCHIVIST
So, what, now you sell dead animals? What is this place?

SARAH
The Trophy Room. A taxidermist shop in Barnet.

It says above the door. Surprised to meet an Archivist who can’t read.

ARCHIVIST
No, I -

[DAISY LAUGHS]
DAISY
Nice.

Why are you here? You and Daniel Rawlings and, I assume the others taken by that… mimic thing.

The anglerfish.

SARAH
It’s where we were told to be.

ARCHIVIST
What is it? The thing that stole you?

SARAH
It doesn’t have a name.

ARCHIVIST
What did it do to you?

SARAH
Exactly what you think.

…

They always suffer.

DAISY
How do we kill it?

SARAH
[Derisively] You don’t.

ARCHIVIST
There are, er… there, there are dozens of deliveries recorded here by Breekon and Hope. What were they delivering? What is the significance of this place?

SARAH
Nothing, except what people give it. But they give it a lot, make it a place of power for us. Enough to keep certain items here. The couriers brought them, and took them, and moved them where they needed to be.

ARCHIVIST
What items? What was stored here?

SARAH
Books, relics, but nothing since the skin.

ARCHIVIST
The… The skin. The, er… [burbles] The ancient taxidermy. The-The one that, erm… Scaplehorn.

The one he saw.

SARAH
I-I don’t know who that is.

ARCHIVIST
He was a-a tax inspector. He came here, and Daniel Rawlings, or his replacement, showed him something he claimed to be the oldest piece of taxidermy in the world. Gorilla skin from Carthage.

SARAH
Heh, was this when you sent your ‘Sasha’ to interrogate us?

ARCHIVIST
Don’t you dare talk about-

DAISY
Sims. Sims. Shut up and focus.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Right.

Is the skin important?

SARAH
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
For the Unknowing?

SARAH
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
And where is it now?

SARAH
[Surprised] You have it.

ARCHIVIST
I… W-what?

SARAH
You don’t know?

ARCHIVIST
What do you mean I have it?

SARAH
The old woman, the one before you. She stole it. She killed Daniel, and took it.

ARCHIVIST
G-Gertrude? But, why would-

SARAH
You really don’t know where it is?

ARCHIVIST
Ah…

SARAH
I see.

[SOUNDS OF A PUNCH LANDING, CLINKING METAL AND RUNNING]
[THREE GUNSHOTS RING OUT]
DAISY
[Wheezing] I hit her. I’m sure I hit her.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, you did. Look.

Sawdust and cloves.

Damn.

DAISY
Come on. Before the Met get here.

ARCHIVIST
Whatever you say.

DAISY
And wipe that grin off your face.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jackson Ellis, regarding the geographical oddities in the town of Bucoda, Washington. Original statement given 3rd March, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Last year I moved to the small town of Bucoda, about 15 miles outside of Olympia in the State of Washington. I’d never heard of the town before, and I certainly had no idea about what I would soon start to think of as… ‘The Pit’. The choice to move was not entirely mine, as my circumstances had driven me into a very particular situation. I had moved out to Olympia from Pittsburgh to pursue what appeared to be a very promising job as a correspondent for a regional newspaper. There weren’t a lot of opportunities in my field, so when I was offered the position in Olympia, I had used all my savings to make the move.

I never got the full story on why the paper closed down so quickly. One person told me they’d gone bankrupt due to embezzlement at a high level, another claimed there was a huge libel suit and they’d lost it badly, and a third said the decision had been made by their parent company without warning. Whatever the reason, I turned up to my first day of work to find the office halfway through being disassembled. I hadn’t technically started my job yet, so there was no redundancy or severance. I was just… stranded in Olympia with no money and no obvious place to go. It didn’t help matters that my new landlord proved entirely unsympathetic to my situation. Since, even if I got a new job immediately, I’d be unable to make the next rent payment on the rather overpriced apartment in the city centre. He told me I was in breach of contract, and was to be evicted. He gave me three days.

So, I ended up in a place where I desperately needed to find somewhere very cheap to live, very quickly. Somewhere I could stay while I looked for another job. My parents were dirt poor themselves, and couldn’t help. I mean, I’m sure they’d have taken me back in, but I didn’t have the money to travel across half the country, especially not with all my stuff. You never realise how many possessions you have until you find them weighing you down, or how little value most of them have to anyone but you. I sold what I could, but I got less than fifty dollars, and had barely got rid of anything.

So when I got chatting to Tommy in a bar, two days before I was getting kicked out, and he told me he had a spare room he was looking to rent out on the cheap, I said yes almost before he’d given me any details about it. Thomas Krycek was young, blandly handsome, and not desperately bright. He seemed like a good sort, though. He’d bought a small one-storey home in the town of Bucoda with his partner a few years ago, but she’d split a month or two before, and now he was struggling to keep up the payments on the house. It wasn’t much, but it fit what might be generously be called my ‘budget’, and Bucoda was less than an hour’s drive from Olympia, so commuting in to any job I might actually get wouldn’t be too bad. I shook his hand, and I moved there.

The town was almost exactly what you would expect. A small grid without traffic signs or markings, patches of grass and dirt with small houses irregularly dotted about. What infrastructure there was boasted only volunteers, and I’d be surprised if there was more than five hundred people in total who called it home. The forest pressed in on all sides, like it did everywhere in the Pacific Northwest, I suppose, but it was an effect I was struggling to get used to. As I pulled up to Tommy’s house for the first time, it was… strange. I felt like even before I turned off the engine I didn’t belong there. Like I’d walked backstage at a theatre: nobody stopped me, but I couldn’t shake the impression that I’d gone somewhere I wasn’t supposed to be. Even when Tommy came out, and started to unpack the trunk, it seemed to me that he blended into the town in a way I just didn’t.

There was no sign this was anything other than in my own head, though. Tommy didn’t seem to notice anything off, and as I shifted my stuff into the tiny bedroom he wordlessly handed me a beer with a big smile. I drank it gladly, and tried my best to relax.

As it turned out my situation wasn’t quite as dreadful as I thought. I discovered the next day that my work had actually paid me a small amount. It wasn’t clear whether it was meant to be salary or severance, and I couldn’t get through to anyone who might have been able to explain it, but it was enough to ease the relentless pressure, if only a little bit. I allowed myself a few days to rest and recover from the chaos that the last week had been. I suppose technically I could have moved out of Tommy’s place, but he seemed… genuinely happy to have me around, and I reckoned my efforts were better spent looking for a new job than a place to live.

I spent the next few days sleeping, drinking, and gently exploring the tiny town which now counted me among its residents. It was quiet, though by no means deserted; I regularly saw other people walking the streets, though there was no sidewalk to speak of. It may have just been my imagination, but whenever they saw me, it seemed like they paused for just a moment, staring at me, before they continued on their way. They seemed friendly enough apart from that, and there never seemed to be any subtext or hidden meaning behind their greetings. Thinking back now, though, I’m not sure I ever saw any children, though maybe I’m reading too much into it.

I found the… pit almost immediately. It wasn’t like it was something that could easily be missed, sitting there at the intersection of River Street and 6th, gaping up at the bright blue sky. It looked like a sinkhole, but almost completely circular, and instead of the sheer drop of most such holes, this one sloped gently down towards a small opening at the centre, maybe ten or fifteen feet below street level. In some ways it seemed more like a crater than a sinkhole, but it was so neat and regular, I didn’t think it could be the result of any impact or explosion. It was huge, bigger than the street that should have been there, and the thing that struck me as odd, was that the road continued around it. It seemed to split apart just before the pit, and come together on the other side of it. I mean, I don’t know if you can judge the age of a hole just by looking at it, but it didn’t seem that old. The road did, though, or at least it definitely hadn’t been put down recently. There was no indication it had been laid separately to the rest of the town. The pit was just there.

As I stood, staring at the hole in the ground, I heard a car coming up the road behind me. I stepped to the side as it drove past and around the edges of the pit, before continuing on. I glanced briefly inside the driver’s side window, but there was no surprise on her face, no irritation at the obstacle. It seemed to have barely registered. I left soon afterwards, weirdly unnerved by its… smooth, circular presence.

I asked Tommy about it the next day. He was reaching into the kitchen to grab me a beer, when I told him I’d stumbled across it when walking around town. I wondered did he know anything about it? How long had it been there? Was it a sinkhole, or an earthquake, or… or what? It was only after I’d casually tossed out a whole series of questions that I noticed Tommy had frozen in place, one hand in the fridge and the other on the door. He didn’t seem alarmed or scared, just completely still. I was quiet for a few seconds, and then he took the beer out and handed it to me, shutting the little fridge behind him. He gave no indication that he’d heard me. So I asked again, the pit on 6th and River, what was it’s deal? He looked at me for a while, like he was trying to puzzle out what I had said from a different language, then shrugged, and mumbled something about old roads not being properly maintained. “No,” I said, “the pit. The big hole in the ground.” He just shook his head like I was talking nonsense, and headed off to his room. I tried to drink my beer, but it tasted thick and unpleasant on my tongue.

I wanted to forget it, to ignore the dusty crater that waited in the middle of this tiny town, but I couldn’t. Something about it rubbed at me, like a speck of dirt in my eye, but the more I tried to reach it, the deeper it went. I checked maps of the area, looking to see if any of them featured the odd landmark, but I found ones that went right up to 2008, and none of them had anything marked at that spot, even though the split in the road had clearly been there far longer than a year.

I tried to talk about it, see if anyone else had any idea about what the pit was or why it was there, but when I asked around Joe’s - the only diner in town - everyone reacted just like Tommy.

Mishearing, misunderstanding or just straight-up ignoring me. It wasn’t even like they seemed deliberately evasive; all their reactions seemed genuine, but no-one was able to talk about the pit. I’d just about given up on getting anything sensible out of the people at Joe’s that afternoon, when an older man walked over to me. I’d seen him around a bit, though I couldn’t have told you who he was or what he did. He was big, though, with a face that looked chiselled out of limestone. I stopped eating, and waited.

The old man stared at me for what must have been a good twenty seconds, and then he spoke. “Nothing for you down there,” he said. “You just go and enjoy your sky.” There was no mistaking the threat in his voice, as if I wasn’t going to have a lot of time left to do so, and I was about to say something when his head suddenly snapped forward, and he spat at my feet. Then he turned and walked away. I looked down, and saw a thick brown lump of mud. Nobody looked over, and I didn’t follow him.

I actually tried to take his advice. I had other things to be worried about, and fundamentally there was no reason for me to be so obsessed with a hole in the ground. It wasn’t even like I needed to travel that road. I was only regularly travelling to Olympia to apply for jobs, and from Tommy’s house the pit was in entirely the other direction. But I started to dream about it. Dream about walking into the pit, the ground turning to thick, sucking mud underneath me. I’d dream about it filling my mouth, my lungs. I couldn’t breathe.

There was one, I can’t honestly say if it was a dream, but I also can’t bring myself to call it a memory. It was sunny, the middle of the day. I could hear the sound of laughter from somewhere in town, soft voices chatting to each other. A peaceful day. I walked as far as the pit, and for the first time, I crossed the edge and began to climb down into it. It was dry, dusty, and the air felt different from the rest of the town. Slowly, carefully, I walked to the hole in the centre. This bit looked more like a sinkhole, disappearing down into the pitch darkness. It was less than a foot across, and I felt a gentle rush of cool, wet air. I sat there in silence, listening, convinced I could hear something, but there was only silence. I leaned closer, my head directly over the hole, and I heard it. And then I did what it told me to.

I took my hand, and I reached down into the darkness. Down and down, until my whole arm was inside, up to the shoulder. It was damp and cold, with the rough stone sides scraping my skin, but my hand was stretched as far as I could, and it still gripped nothing but empty air. Then the hole began to close, and all at once the spell was broken. I tried to pull my arm out, to get free, but it held me tight. Not quite crushing me, but holding me in place. I screamed and cried for help, looking around for anyone who might be able to hear me, but the only people walking by seemed utterly oblivious to what was happening. Then I felt it, something brushing against my hand from below it in the hole. Teeth. Wet, blunt teeth, which quickly gave way to a rough, slender tongue that wrapped itself around my hand and snaked up my arm, as though tasting me. Then, without warning I felt it snap back into the darkness, taking some of the skin with it, and my arm was abruptly released.

The next thing I remember I was lying in bed. I want to say I had just woken up and it was all a dream, but I was fully dressed, dusty, and with long, thin scratches that snaked around my arm.

That was when I started desperately looking for a way to leave Bucoda. I’d been there for just over a month by this point, and had managed to find a part-time job over in the nearby town, Chehalis. The pay wasn’t great, but it should have been just about enough to move out if I was careful. Tommy was upset, of course, but didn’t seem surprised - that month had been a bit tense, and we weren’t particularly well-suited to living together anyway. I suppose that’s what you get for moving in with strangers you meet in a bar.

It was the night before I left that it happened. 17th June, 2008. I’d got all my things boxed up and ready to go. I had the keys to my new place. All I had to do was get one more good night’s sleep. Instead I was woken up about two in the morning by the sound of the front door closing. I called out, but Tommy didn’t respond. I searched the house to make sure no-one had broken in, but the place was empty. I was alone. Tommy’s business was his own, I decided, and was about to return to bed when I saw a shadow pass by the window. Then another. I quietly moved to the door and pushed it open, looking out into the street to see if I could figure out what was going on.

There aren’t a lot of street lights in Bucoda, and at night, when all the houses are dark it can get very eerie indeed. I was close enough to see the figures moving down the road, though. They walked casually, like they were just going for a stroll, but there were a lot of them. Maybe the whole town. Walking out of their houses and trailers, and down the unlit streets. I knew exactly where they were going, and I just couldn’t stop myself following them.

I don’t know how the whole town was able to get inside the pit. There must have been hundreds of them, piled high, and encrusted with mud. They did not move, though their eyes shone so brightly in my torch that they must have been alive. None of them made a sound, though I could feel a warmth and shuddering below my feet, as though the earth itself was screaming.

Without warning one of their heads snapped towards me. It was a young woman who had lived the next road over, and whose name I had never learned. She stared at me, eyes suddenly alive with terror, and began to scream. The instant she did, she disappeared, pulled into the ground, cutting the sound off before it had even begun. I turned and ran, back to the house. I wanted to drive away, but I couldn’t bear to be outside. So I hid, under my bed the rest of the night, and felt the ground rock gently beneath me.

I don’t know if Tommy returned the next day. As soon as it was light outside, I leapt into my car, and began to drive away. I tried to, at least. I didn’t want to see the pit again, I really didn’t. But I did. It was empty, as before, like the previous night had never happened. But it was bigger. And the road had swelled to encompass it.

There was someone else looking at it, though. An elderly woman, face pinched and thoughtful, stood at the edge looking down. I didn’t recognise her, or the car she stood next to. She definitely wasn’t from Bucoda. Sat in the car next to her, I could see a young man who had clearly been crying. I couldn’t get over how blue his eyes were. The old woman caught my eye, and looked from me, to the pit, and back again. I thought about saying something when she gestured for me to leave, and I did. I decided that I was no part of whatever was happening, so I drove away, and didn’t look back.

That night, the earthquake struck that destroyed Bucoda entirely, so I guess I’ll never know what was going on. And honestly? I’m glad.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Why has Elias sent me this statement? It took place the other side of the world, to people who don’t seem to have any connection with what’s going on. I’ve suspected for a while there may be some power concerned with caves and enclosed spaces, being buried alive or crushed. So I suppose it’s nice to get a statement that goes some way to developing that theory, but… I cannot figure out what it has to do with our current situation. Is it the nameless old man? The old woman? Or whoever was crying in the car? Is he trying to warn me not to ignore my own metaphorical pit, because if so, what is my metaphorical pit?

You know, it’s somehow worse, now that I know I can ask why he’s sending me these statements, but that he still won’t… tell me. I did my follow-up. Mr. Ellis is still alive and well, currently living in Tacoma, and unwilling to discuss these events any further. The town of Bucoda itself is… Well, it’s… gone. Newspapers reported it as an earthquake, and tremors were felt as far away as Castle Rock, but despite every article describing Bucoda as having been “destroyed” by the earthquake, there are no pictures or records of the destruction itself. No damage seems to have occurred outside of town limits, and all the roads in the area seem unaffected, despite there being no evidence of rebuilding works taking place after the event. As far as I can tell, there was an earthquake, and then Bucoda wasn’t there, but aside from these two detail -

[LIGHTBULB POPS AND GOES OUT]
Oh. [Sigh] Alright, let’s….

[STANDS UP, FLICKS THE LIGHTSWITCH ON/OFF TWICE]
Georgie, where’s your fusebo -?

Right. Right. Keep saying it’s not meant to trip whenever one bulb goes, but “No, John, I don’t want to bother the landlord.”

[SIGHS]
Ah.

ORSINOV
[Sing-song] You don’t want to do that.

[FOOTSTEPS]
[SHARP INTAKE OF BREATH FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
ORSINOV
I mean, you can if you really want to, but you’re not going to like it. Sometimes not being able to see something is actually quite a good thing.

ARCHIVIST
Who are you?

ORSINOV
Well, my father called me Nikola, and then I killed him, so I thought I rather deserved to have his second name too. Which makes me Nikola Orsinov. Pleased to meet you at last.

ARCHIVIST
You, um… You killed Gregor Orsinov?

ORSINOV
Yep! He got really boring, and I’m a monster. I mean, what do you want me to do - not pull him apart? I did use all the bits.

ARCHIVIST
I… Y… Y-You don’t… sound Russian.

ORSINOV
How could I sound anything, silly? I’m plastic.

[TAP, TAP ON THE PLASTIC HEAD]
I don’t even have a voicebox. I had to borrow this one.

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

ORSINOV
Don’t turn on the light.

ARCHIVIST
A-Are… Are you going to kill me?

ORSINOV
[Aghast] No!

[Reconsiders] I mean, yes. But not for a good long while yet. I don’t want you to go to waste.

ARCHIVIST
Then, er… then, then what…

Then why are you here?

ORSINOV
After you attacked poor Sarah, I thought it was about time we had a good old chat. Face to no face! Eye to… well.

ARCHIVIST
W… What do you want?

ORSINOV
You remember that old piece of skin you were talking about? We’d like it back. We thought that mean old Gertrude had destroyed it. But then you went looking, and now we think maybe she was just very good at hiding.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, are you asking me to find it for you?

ORSINOV
That would be lovely. And a lot nicer for you than our other ideas.

ARCHIVIST
What is so important about some ancient bit of taxidermy?

ORSINOV
[Elated] I want to wear it when I dance the world new.

ARCHIVIST
But… But wh - URK!

[THE ARCHIVIST IS STRUCK DUMB]
ORSINOV
Question time is over, little Archivist. Find the skin for us. You have until… well, until I change my mind.

[THE ARCHIVIST FALLS, BREATHING HEAVILY]
Shhh… Save your energy for the dance.

[FOOTSTEPS OVER LABOURED BREATHING]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[SHUFFLING PAPERS AS MARTIN PREPARES HIMSELF TO READ A STATEMENT]
[LONG EXHALATION]
[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
Oh.

MARTIN
Oh, er…

TIM
Sorry, didn’t know you were here.

MARTIN
No, it’s - it’s - it’s alright. Kind of glad, to be honest.

Need a distraction.

Got another statement to record.

TIM
Still doing those?

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah.

I did ask Elias if I could stop.

TIM
And he said no for a mysterious reason?

MARTIN
I don’t know. I mean, he kind of explained. I think? John’s “too inconsistent” at the moment. He needs to make up for the shortfall. Which, I guess means me.

Unless…

TIM
No.

MARTIN
He did suggest I try to get you involved and-

TIM
And I suggest he not be a scary, magic psychopath. Whoops! Too late.

MARTIN
Yeah.

[TIM SIGHS]
TIM
Sorry.

MARTIN
No, I- I get it. Heh. They’re not exactly much fun.

TIM
Look, it’s not that. I… [Sighs]

This place is evil, Martin. And I think doing what It wants, probably makes us evil. And It wants those things to be read. I mean, I’m not going to stop you, but at the same time…

MARTIN
I- I get it.

TIM
[Sigh] Look, have you talked to John about them?

MARTIN
[Flustered] Erm… not…. I don’t know, he always gets so weird about the statements, and I… I guess I… I didn’t want to make him jealous?

TIM
Jealous.

MARTIN
I don’t know! Sort of? I mean… Look, it didn’t come up, alright?

Have you seen him since…?

TIM
[Grunts] Kind of. We tried to talk, but he, he reached for that - Ah, he, he wanted to turn on his recorder. I freaked out a bit, and I said some stuff: if he wanted to talk, no tapes, I just, I just hate that thing.

You?

MARTIN
Yeah, we talked. Not long, he - Y’know, I think he thinks that the distance keeps us safe, you know? Like, like, if he just makes sure that we’re not involved, we’re somehow fine.

TIM
He’s an idiot. Look, we didn’t know what that door was, and it still trapped us. Ignorance isn’t going to save anyone.

MARTIN
No, I mean, you’re right, I guess. He was… Y’know, we know about Sasha now, and… he said he doesn’t want to lose anyone else. Like, y’know, it’s his fault.

TIM
Isn’t it?

MARTIN
No! No, it isn’t! I mean, you heard Elias… We never really stood a chance.

TIM
Yeah.

Maybe. But Elias wasn’t actually the one who offered me the job down here.

MARTIN
No, I -

Sure.

…

TIM
L-Listen, I, I’ve gotta go. I’ve got… stuff to do.

MARTIN
Sure.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[MARTIN SIGHS, GATHERS PAPERS]
[HEAVY PAUSE AS HE NOTICES TAPE RECORDER RUNNING]
Huh.

Yeah, y’know, y’know what? A little privacy would be nice sometimes, okay? Not everything’s for you! You don’t need to listen to everything that we -

Alright, you know what? Y’know what… If you’re that eager, fine.

Martin Blackwood, Archival Assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 8640514. Statement of Doctor Algernon Moss, given May 14th 1864.

[CLEARS THROAT]
MARTIN (STATEMENT)
My story, such as is, should not be long in the telling, though there is much you could understand of the circumstances surrounding it. I come to you not to wallow in my condition, or pour out my soul like a papist in the confessional, but to request your assistance. I believe that Maxwell Rayner has at his disposal some unholy power that he has used to curse me and cause my blindness. Or, more precisely, to cause me to blind myself, for I shall not deny I did so willingly. For obvious reasons my accusations have had me laughed out of most polite society. Not quite so polite when you’re accusing someone of witchcraft, it would seem. I now ask the assistance of your Institute in the hopes that you may be able to furnish some evidence or legal precedent that may assist me in taking action against my assailant, though I will admit my expectations for the latter are limited.

Maxwell Rayner is an oddity. He claims to be an antiquities dealer from Africa, and has, of late, become something of a darling in certain circles of Cambridge, though I have never heard him discuss either antiquities or his supposed homeland in any real detail. His passion appears to be polar expeditions, and it’s rare to attend any social gathering with him where the subject does not eventually come up. In particular he seems to share that peculiarly specific mania regarding the fate John Franklin and his lost expedition. I would assume he was intending to accompany such a party himself, were it not for the fact of his own blindness. Indeed, the spectacle of his milky white eyes staring behind the weathered black skin of his face is an image so striking that, were I to be uncharitable, I might suggest had something to do with the readiness with which he acquires invitations and calling cards. He is led around by a young Arabian lad of ten or eleven, though the ease with which he carries himself makes me suspect this assistance is an affectation rather than necessity. Both speak perfect English, with no accent I can recognise, though the boy rarely opens his mouth other than to alert Rayner of nearby goings-on.

The circumstances of our dispute are, by some margin, the least interesting part of my tale. I outbid him at an auction. It was nothing of note, so I assumed, though perhaps I should have considered his particular obsession. It was an oilskin packet of documents, supposedly from the log-books of Franklin’s lost ship, the HMS Terror. I will admit a small amount of interest in the matter myself, and my inclination turned to resolve when I saw how insistently Rayner was bidding on it, and I prevailed. He approached me afterwards to discuss the matter and, perhaps if his tone had been less sharp, I might have allowed him to observe the documents himself, but as it was I took some issue with his manner of address and curtly denied him. He was almost shaking with rage at this point, and I was momentarily concerned that the situation might descend into violence when, instead, he leaned forward and whispered with an intensity I had never before heard in a human voice: “Pray the Sandman only brings you sleep.”

Now, the fact that these words filled me with a stark terror that all but overcame my senses probably needs some explanation. My father was not a kindly man, you see. He came from a stern Christian tradition that would curdle the smiles of the simpering vicars you encounter these days. As a boy, I soon learned that the key to avoiding his ire was to avoid his attention altogether, and never more so than after I had been put to bed. The nursery, you see, had its door in the middle of the passage between the drawing room and my father’s study and, as such, he would pass by it several times a night. When I heard that heavy tread outside the door and the shadow passing over the threshold, I would lie there and pray that I was quiet enough not to disturb his passage. If I was ever foolish enough to leave my candle burning that I might read a few minutes more, I would hear the door open and my father’s voice intone, “Lights out.” He had been a military man in his youth, had my father, and he prided himself on handing down that discipline to me.

Eventually I was sent off to board at Repton School, up near Manchester. The Headmaster there, one John Heyrick Macaulay, was apparently an old friend of my father’s. It was a miserable place: over two centuries old and very much showing it. When I attended there must have been barely fifty boys there, and no cricket pitch, racquet court, or any of the sort of facilities one might have expected, nor even a chapel. The few masters there taught Latin and Greek readily enough, but no French or music or natural science. Were it not for the relative freedom we had to rove around the nearby land and towns, I would have had a solidly miserable time there. Even when we managed to play football, it was between crumbling arches, loomed over by the jagged shadows of broken pillars. For all the life and vitality of the boys there, the place itself was decrepit, and sometimes I feel it resented our presence.

I had one great friend during my time at Repton, a lad named George Denman. I’m sure you recognise the name, given the recent speeches he’s been giving on capital punishment. Well, I bet it never comes up in his Parliamentary goings-on that he has the word “Fly 1835” inscribed on his left arm with India ink. “Fly” was the nickname the hound master at Repton gave him, you see, on account of his propensity for running, and he insisted on getting hold of a needle and tattooing it upon himself. This may give you an idea of the impetuous soul that possessed Denman as a youth. He was always going out of bounds or running off after curfew, and if the masters caught him he’d be dragged back to bed. He slept in the bedroom adjoining my own, and whenever I heard the approaching footsteps of whichever master caught him, I would instinctively blow out my candle, the old dread of my father returning in a rush.

One day, Denman pulled me to one side, eyes alive with mischief, and told me that he had returned from his holidays in possession of a “positively ghoulish” book. It was a German tome titled Die Nachtstüke, and contained several morbid tales by a man named Hoffman. I spoke little German, but Denman had enough of a grasp for us to puzzle through the stories together. The candles would burn low as, sentence by sentence, we would decode that delightful unease that can be elicited by a properly macabre tale.

The first of the collection was titled Der Sandmann, and was what I believe would these days be referred to as psychological story, dealing with the madness, trauma and hallucinations of the protagonist, including the eponymous Sandman. What stuck with me, however, was a description given of a particularly horrific interpretation of the Sandman. Far from the comforting friend of children he is so often portrayed as, he was rendered as quite the monster.

I remember how the old maid of the story describes him quite keenly, as well as I remember my own dread at the passage Denman translated:

“He comes to children who don’t go to bed, and throws his sand all into their eyes, and they start to bleed. He takes those fallen eyes up in his bag, and carries them up into the crescent moon, to his nest, where his own children feast upon them. They have crooked beaks like owls, all the better to pick the eyes of naughty human children.”

Dear lord, just remembering it, even now, blind as I am, it still makes me shake. You can imagine the effect it had on me as a lad. Denman read us through the rest of the stories, but I could barely pay attention, my mind fixated on that figure with its razor-sharp sand and long, hooked beak. Now, when I heard my masters walk past my room at night, I had no doubt as to the terrible shape they had taken. I had the most awful nightmares of the Sandman, stood in my doorway, motionless, intoning in the voice of my father: “Lights out”.

I had never told anyone of this childhood terror, not even my wife. So, you may imagine the shock and confusion when I heard the words spoken by Maxwell Rayner. He actually looked almost surprised at my expression when I pulled back from him, clearly sensing he had struck a nerve. Perhaps he didn’t know, and I was simply a victim of the most grotesque coincidence. Whatever the situation, I mumbled my excuses and fled. I swear I could still feel those unseeing eyes follow me as I left the room, a grin of victory playing upon his lips.

Perhaps you can guess what happened next. I don’t know how vivid or nightmarish the other accounts you collect here might be. Certainly nobody else believes me when I speak of it. But… the Sandman came for me that very night.

He was nothing like the story. He was tall, yes, and thin, but the edges of him were impossible to see against the darkness he was a part of. He had no beak, but coarse black sand trickled from his open mouth and hit the floor with a steady hiss. His legs were long, but he crossed the room slowly, every one of his joints moving and twisting as he took step after torturous step. There was no sound at all. I looked to my wife, but she was locked in a peaceful sleep.

A thin beam of moonlight was clearly marked upon the floor, where a gap in the curtains let it shine through. As the long dark foot touched it, I watched that moonlight curdle like rancid milk. Wherever the Sandman touched, the world dissolved into a choking darkness. First my door. Then creeping along the distance of our bedroom. Then the bed itself. Then my Agatha. Until all that was left was me, the darkness, and the dreadful thing that brought it.

I do not know how I had come to the conviction that I was in the Sandman’s sack. The idea simply arrived in my head fully formed. I had been taken, and would remain here, trapped forever in this lightless place, without even the faintest hint to taunt me. The darkness pressed in, and seemed to fill my mouth, my nose. But it did not touch my eyes. And then I made a choice. I still knew where the Sandman was, though I couldn’t tell you how, and I decided that sightlessness was preferable to darkness. If you had asked me before, I would have told you that there was no difference, but I know better now. There is far more to the darkness than simply being unable to see.

I reached out to where I knew the thing’s pouch would be, and seized a handful of sand. It was already slick with my blood as I lifted it and cast it into my face. I do not suppose I need to dwell upon the pain, but please know that I would sooner die than endure it again.

It worked, though. Inasmuch as I have remained solidly within this world. In some ways I left my sight behind in that awful place, but I am well rid of it, if it kept the rest of me here. I only wish the last thing I saw, the final vision burned into my mind, had been anything other than that awful, shifting face.

So, there is my story. I’m sure you’ll agree that Maxwell Rayner is the clear architect of my misfortune. Now, how do you suppose I revenge myself upon him?

MARTIN
[Panting] End of statement.

[Deep breath] I, um, I think I might need to sit down. Oh. Yeah, I am. Right. I don’t, uh, I’m not really sure if these are actually getting easier or harder. I mean I don’t feel -

Y-You know what, that’s not important. [Sigh] I wish John kept better organised notes because I know he’s mentioned someone called Maxwell Rayner, but I cannot find much in the way of any info-

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Uh, Martin, have you seen Elias?

MARTIN
Oh, uh… No, but Tuesday lunch he normally meets with the Library staff, I think. He’ll… He’ll probably be back in his office in an hour or so?

MELANIE
Ah, thanks.

Er… Are you alright?

MARTIN
Hm? Oh, I, yeah, I’ve… ah. Yeah, I’m fine.

MELANIE
You just look really pale.

MARTIN
I… [Sigh] I was just recording one of the statements, and they are…

MELANIE
Ah, right! Yes.

They, um… they’re a lot, aren’t they?

MARTIN
Sorry?

MELANIE
I mean they… they really take it out of you. I must have slept, er, twenty hours after I did one.

MARTIN
Hang on. You recorded a statement?

MELANIE
Yes. It was about a bed, funnily enough.

MARTIN
I… I don’t suppose you’d mind doing some more?

Elias wants to make up the shortfall while John’s away and what with Tim…

MELANIE
Sure, no problem. Al-Although I was just going to have a talk with Elias, so, uh, maybe I can convince him to cut you some slack.

MARTIN
I wouldn’t hold my breath.

MELANIE
Right. Fair. Listen, you really look like you could use a drink. Um, me and Basira were just about to pop out. So… do you want to join us?

MARTIN
It’s like one in the afternoon.

MELANIE
Are you afraid of getting fired?

MARTIN
…

Huh. I’ll get my coat.

MELANIE
Great.

Just, um, gimme, gimme an hour or so. I, I just have a few things to take care of… first.

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Huh.

[DEEP SIGH]
Oh, um, er, end recording.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MELANIE
Knock, knock.

ELIAS
Ah, Melanie. Can I help you?

MELANIE
Oh, not really. I, I just went out for some coffees, and, and thought I’d get you one.

ELIAS
How very thoughtful.

MELANIE
I don’t know how you take it, but John likes his black, so… I, I thought that was a fair assumption.

ELIAS
It was. However, I think I’d rather you drink it.

MELANIE
Oh… er, what?

ELIAS
The coffee you brought me.

[SLIDES COFFEE ACROSS DESK]
Drink it.

MELANIE
N… N… No. Y-You’re okay. I’ve, I’ve got my own actually. It’s a… a decaf one… [Nervously chuckles]

ELIAS
I assume you don’t believe me, then? That murdering me would also kill you?

MELANIE
I - I - I don’t know what you’re…

ELIAS
Coffee is not as good for disguising tastes as you might think. And it’s even worse at disguising texture. Dissolved pills always leave such a, um, chalky residue.

MELANIE
Look, Elias, I never-

ELIAS
I assume this is your first time attempting to poison someone? Do you actually know how many painkillers it takes to kill someone, or were you just hoping I’d take enough to get sick, and you could finish the job… manually?

[A CLOCK TICKS]
MELANIE
[Deep breath] Why…? Why bother asking then? Why bother if you know everything?

ELIAS
[Chuckles slightly] I don’t know everything, Melanie. Do know how exhausting that would be?

I’ll tell you one thing I don’t know, and that’s how to convince you that I’m trying to help. Honestly, you’re one of the lucky ones. But not if we’re all dead thanks to an… overzealous attempt at independence.

MELANIE
I don’t need you to-

ELIAS
Let’s have no more clumsy assassination attempts, alright? And we’ll say no more about it. Consider this your first warning. Next time I shall have to escalate matters, and that won’t be a pleasant process for anybody.

…

Understood?

…

Melanie?

MELANIE
…

Yes.

ELIAS
Good.

MELANIE
…

Did…? Did you turn that on?

ELIAS
Hmm? Oh. You get used to it.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Case 9522002 - Robert E. Geiger. Incident occurred in Boise City, Oklahoma, April 1935. Victim’s name given as Stefan Brotchen. Statement given 20th of February 1952. Committed to tape 2nd of September, 2007. Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
I read somewhere once I was the first man to use the term “Dust Bowl”. Now, that’s not so. Maybe the first the boys in the New York office had heard, but down in Oklahoma it wasn’t too unusual a turn of phrase. Wide, flat, open spaces… You could see a storm coming for miles, coming straight at you all across the horizon, looking near as anything like the end of the world.

Those were bad days. Worse than anyone knows. Did my best to spread the word, filed my copy with the AP, but there was plenty I never did find the words for. There were things in the dust that I never told to a soul. It’s why I decided to step in on you folks. I still wish there was a place like this back home, but the way things are going they’d be up in front of Congress, likely as not, so maybe it’s for the best.

You know much about dust pneumonia? Don’t know why you would do, really. There isn’t much of it about these days. Wasn’t back then, either, at least before the storms came. Then there was plenty. The name makes it sound more complicated than it is. You see, ‘dust pneumonia’ is just a medical way of saying your lungs are full of mud. Too much goes in, you see, and it clogs up all the bits of your chest that should clear them out. There’s fever, difficulty breathing, infection… The dust mixes with the moisture of your insides, and soon enough you’re drowning, your lungs packed solid with mud and mucus.

Awful thing to happen to anybody, but that’s what the dust storms were. Great chunks of earth torn up and hurled across the open plains, desperate to find some poor unsheltered throat and climb inside. They buried you alive, without even giving you the courtesy of getting you below the ground. And I saw so many choking farmers, their dirt-streaked faces seemed to blend together. Watching as their livelihoods evaporated with the rain. As their farms, their homes, their lives collapsed into dirt. It was all a long sepia blur: weather-beaten faces caked in that same patina of misery and grit. All except for Stefan.

Stefan Brotchen was, to all appearances, much the same as any other Okie farmer: strongly built, with a mess of short, curly, blond hair and a round, smiling face. But his eyes were different. There was… something there. I-I was never quite sure what, but they had a depth, a quiet intensity to them that struck me the first time I saw him. I’d been gathering comment for an AP article on the latest dust storms to hit the area. There’d been a lot of interest nationally after one dust storm made it all the way to Washington, and my editor was keen to get some comment from the people worst hit. So, naturally, I ended up in Boise City.

There was always something odd about that town. Something about it at odds with the land it sat on. Challenged the wide stretches of nothing. I guess that’s not a surprise, looking back. I did some research on the place afterwards, you see. Did you know that Boise City was founded by fraud? I mean literal, send-you-to-prison fraud. Yeah, back in 1908, three men decided to start selling the deeds to land they didn’t own. They printed up hundreds of brochures: “Come to scenic Boise City! Tree-lined boulevards, all the amenities, even a railroad station, all ready and waiting for brave souls to head out there and settle.” And people bought it. Almost three thousand of them. Of course, when they finally arrived to this fabled town, there was absolutely nothing there at all. Just empty, waiting earth. They didn’t even own the plots of land they’d been sold. But they stayed, and they built a town. Not a great town, by any stretch. Not even a good town, truth be told, but there it was, in defiance of all good sense.

One of the men who settled in the newly formed Boise City was Stefan Brotchen’s father. He was long-dead by the time we met his son. My photographer, a small man named Harry Eisenhard, had been told about the Brotchen farm when asking about places around the area hit bad by the storms. Stefan’s fields had nothing left but dry earth, they told us. Farmhouse stripped almost bare by the harsh winds, his livestock dead and already half-buried, his family gone. Never found out more than that. Just… gone.

When we pulled up that Sunday, the place was everything we’d been told and more. We’d see the top of wheels and farm equipment poking up through the ground, until we realised it wasn’t the ground, just a good three feet of newly fallen dirt half-burying the ploughs and wagon. I saw what must once have been a cow, covered from the neck up in coarse and clinging dust. Harry and I had wrapped our handkerchiefs over our faces, as the men back in town had told us, but the air was already thick, and I could hear Harry coughing beside me. I’d seen a few victims of the dust pneumonia by this point, and the sound of his breathing made me press the cloth close to my face, and offer up a silent prayer.

Stefan did not wear a cloth across his face when he came out to meet us, and I could see the fine particles collecting in his hair, in the corners of his eyes. He smiled warmly, and waved us over. I’ve tried in the years since to remember if there was anything behind that smile, anything dark or secret that I might have overlooked; there was nothing. The soft, friendly voice was, as far as I can tell, genuine, and as Stefan Brotchen sat there in his small, dusty kitchen, telling us his misfortunes, there was no clue in his face as to what must have been going on inside him.

His story was not unusual, and I’m sure that if you hunted down a copy of the Lubbock Evening Journal from that week there’d be most of it in there. Crops dying, soil parched and a farm on the brink of ruin, all ruled over by that desperate, empty hope of rain. He never mentioned his family, and I never thought to ask, though the house clearly was far too big for Stefan to live there alone. He offered us a drink at one point, just water, but I couldn’t bring myself to accept. I just had this image playing through my mind over and over again. He stands up, walks over, pulls out a bottle of thick, flowing mud, opens it, and pours it down his throat with a smile on his face. Just my imagination, I told myself. Just letting the dust get to me.

It only took an hour or two before I decided I had enough material for the story, and I stood up, and thanked him for his time. Harry did the same, and I shook Stefan by the hand. As I touched his skin, I almost pulled my hand away it was so hot. It was a dry, feverish heat and I looked at his face and saw for the first time the fierce, flushed redness, the forehead slick with sweat. His chest started to convulse, and he doubled over, spluttering out a clod of pulpy, brown sludge onto the wooden floor. I started to ask if he was okay, but Harry tugged on my arm, gesturing outside with an almost wild urgency. It all seemed to be happening so fast I could barely register what was going on. At least, until I got outside and looked west.

The vast, roling black clouds stretched before us, as far as we could see. It was coming for us with such a speed that there was a part of me that immediately knew, despite all logic, that it was trying to kill me, and me alone. It was the worst dust storm I had ever seen, and it promised to blot out everything. I ran back inside to warn Stefan, and ask if he had anywhere we could wait it out, but I found him lying on the ground. He was face down, a thin trickle of dirt oozing slowly from his mouth and nose. I called to Harry, told him Stefan needed help, but he could barely hear me over the wind, which was now so fierce that it seemed to drown everything else out. When I finally made him understand, he seemed none too keen to drive through the storm, and warned me the engine would clog before we got half way back to Boise City. I said we had no choice but to try. If we didn’t, then Stefan was already dead.

We covered his face with a cloth, and carried him out and into our small car, laying him into the back as gently as we could. The wind was so sharp it felt like it was trying to strip the flesh from my skull; I had to hold my hand in front of my eyes to keep out the dirt that was whipping around at forty miles an hour. Even with my handkerchief covering my mouth, I could feel the dust creeping in, forming a damp, cloying paste between my teeth. And the storm hadn’t even hit yet.

I climbed into the driver’s seat, while Harry scuttled round to the passenger side, and with Stefan laid across the back we turned and began the drive back towards town, trying to convince ourselves we had any hope of outrunning the storm.

We did not.

It bore down on us like the judgement from Heaven, and in less than a moment the sun was gone and the sky was black. I tried to keep driving, but I could hear the engine choking, sputtering, and finally coming to an end.

It’s hard to describe just how dark it is in the middle of a dust storm. It’s not just the lack of sun but that no light can penetrate more than a few feet, before the swirling opaque cloud kills it dead. It’s loud, with the wind and the sound of those dry specks of earth blasting against the car, but it’s the sort of loud that, after a while, starts to feel a lot like silence. We did our best to plug up any gaps in the windows or the frame, and keep as much of the dust outside as we could, and then we sat there, feeling for all the world like we were the last people left alive, entombed within our metal coffin.

I tried to say something to Harry, to reassure him, but opening my mouth just invited more dust, and I was already coughing more than enough to panic. So we just sat there, in what felt like silence for over an hour, trying not to think about the storm, or the poor Oklahoma farmer dying on our back seat. We just waited.

At some point Stefan must have finally died. I know this because when he started talking to us again, there was no way he could have made those noises unless his lungs and throat were fully packed with sediment. The words were soft, insistent and spasmed out of his dirt-clogged body like an earthquake. I don’t remember what he said, not really. It only comes back to me in those quicksand dreams, where I feel the earth swallowing me forever. He was making promises, I think. Promising us that when the sky fell and became an eternity of mud, he would carve out a place for us in the heart of the forever buried. He would show us… the love of ‘Choke’.

I still couldn’t see anything, but I felt his hand on my face, hot and dry and rough, and I tried to scream, but it just let in more dust. Harry did scream, though, and I could hear a struggle going on beside me, grunts and the sounds of flesh striking soil, then the sound of a car door opening, and the sudden rush of wind and grit. And then it closed abruptly, and I once again sat in the unmoving quiet of the car. Except this time, I was alone.

I never saw Harry Eisenhard again. When the storm finally passed, I spent hours searching for him, but he was gone. I did find the body of Stefan, though, about twenty yards away, so encrusted with dirt he barely looked human anymore. Black Sunday, they called that storm, and Harry was a long way from its only casualty. He got lost in the shuffle, officially mourned by the staff of the Associated Press, and then never discussed again. I wish I could say more about him, but honestly, I hadn’t worked with the man very much. All I know is that he was taken by Stefan Brotchen, and that it happened after Brotchen was dead. When all that made him human was suffocated, and the only thing left to move and speak inside him was that terrible killing dust.

GERTRUDE
[Sighs] Hmm. Final comments.

Based on the history of Boise City and its deceptive roots, I would perhaps have expected some aspect of the Spiral to be at work here, but its unique position at the centre of the Dust Bowl does seem heavily to indicate another power overtly at work. I have had my suspicions about where to be focusing my efforts, and the nature of the pseudo-prophecies given by the dust inside Stefan Brotchen seems to confirm them. To that end, I’ve been examining fault lines and seismic data for -

[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
[GERTRUDE GROANS]
[Adopts a somewhat frailer voice] Hello?

[DOOR OPENS]
MICHAEL
Ah, Miss Robinson, I, um, I found Mr. Vargas’ statement that you asked for. Well, uh, I found the translation. I, I already had the original but, y’know, I, I, I didn’t think you’d want it in Spanish. [Nervous chuckles] U-U-Unless you speak Spanish?

GERTRUDE
[Somewhat sharply] I do not. And thank you Michael.

MICHAEL
Sure. Um, well, was, was there anything else you needed?

GERTRUDE
Um… No, no. Not at the moment.

Thank you.

GERTRUDE
Right, well, if you need me, uh, they’re installing that climate-controlled storage… that thing o-o-over the weekend, so I’m, I’m, y’know, I’m just getting all that together.

GERTRUDE
Yes! Yes, I remember.

MICHAEL
Right.

Well, call me if you need anything.

GERTRUDE
Thank you, Michael, I will.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[Normal voiced] Right. These additional researches have further cemented my belief that North America is going to be the focal point for the Buried. Now it’s just a matter of narrowing down the specifics of geography, and that may just come down to monitoring the right movement of supplies and people. I’m still not completely sold on the US for the Hunt, but that’s unlikely to be quite as urgent.

For the Buried, however, I do have what I believe might be quite an effective plan forming. Assuming, of course, that my suspicions about Jan Kilbride are correct, and that’s something that should be easy enough to determine once he’s back on Earth. Considering what’s probably happened to him up there already, I feel almost… bad, but there’s ten years yet before I can afford a conscience.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
I, um… I… Right. Right, I-

My head is… That was Michael. It - It was… It was Michael. H-how… How was it Michael? He - It… It never…

Gertrude knew Michael. He was one of her assistants, but, but, but that doesn’t make any sense. The thing that calls itself Michael, it - it - it doesn’t seem like it was ever human. So what happened to the real Michael? Did -

I mean that’s not really a question, is it? He’s dead, and it’s probably because of Gertrude. I still can’t figure out whose side she was actually on. Or even if she was playing the same game.

Doesn’t matter. Everyone who came close to her… seems like it… it went badly. Her assistants, Gerard, Leitner, Elias, though I don’t think Gertrude had anything to do with his going rotten. But Michael… Did it take that form just to mock me? Knowing that at-at some point I’d look deeper into Gertrude? WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU?

…

No. No, never when you call.

Just one door. So many of these stories, these, these people touched by… Once you’re on the path to becoming a monst - an avatar, it looks like it gets more and more unhealthy to be around you. [Heavy sigh] I think… I think I need to lea -

[DOOR OPENS]
GEORGIE
Uh, John, did you call me? I was in the studio, but I thought I heard you shouting.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, uh, no it’s a false alarm.

GEORGIE
Okay, uh, sure. You alright?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I… Look, look, I’ve been thinking -

GEORGIE
Are you sure? You look a bit -

ARCHIVIST
No, I’m fine!

GEORGIE
No, really, you’re really sweating.

ARCHIVIST
Look, G-Georgie, I need to move out.

GEORGIE
Umm… yeah. I thought you were looking for a place. Y’know, now, now you’ve got a salary again.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I mean, now.

GEORGIE
What, now now? It’s like five in the afternoon.

ARCHIVIST
T-Tomorrow, then. I… I - I just… I just don’t like staying here.

GEORGIE
Well thanks.

ARCHIVIST
You know that’s not what I mean. I feel like I’m putting you in danger.

GEORGIE
Well, yeah. You are. A horrible mannequin thing turned up.

Had to change all my lightbulbs.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. This, this is my point!

GEORGIE
I said I’m fine with it. At least until you’re properly back on your feet. You’re not doing well. You keep apologising and saying you’re changing, but it’s all just the same. If you leave, I think it’s just going to get worse, and I don’t want that.

ARCHIVIST
I do appreci - I mean, I don’t… Georgie, you literally can’t feel fear! Are you sure that that’s not -

GEORGIE
Don’t! Okay. I’m well aware of my situation. It does not make me an idiot. And it doesn’t mean I got a death wish, either.

ARCHIVIST
Is it… Why are you so insistent on keeping me around?

GEORGIE
Because you’re trying to cut yourself off, and that’s… that’s really bad. Look, when’s the last time you spoke to someone who wasn’t me?

ARCHIVIST
That’s… I… I - I - talked to Martin a… a, a few weeks ago…

GEORGIE
Did you talk to him? Or did he talk to you, while you tried to find a way to escape?

ARCHIVIST
I…

GEORGIE
Look, you’re worried. I get it. But if you really think you’re turning into something… inhuman, you need people around you. You need anchors.

ARCHIVIST
All my “anchors” are just as deep in this as me.

GEORGIE
Well, you still need them.

ARCHIVIST
[Sigh] Maybe you’re right. I’ll talk to the others. Check in properly, see if I can help with the, uh, with Elias’ new management style. But I won’t stay here. If something happened to you, or, or, god-forbid, the Admiral, because I was here-.

GEORGIE
Alright, fine. I mean, you’re a grown-ass man, you want to leave, find a hotel, I can’t stop you. Just… keep in touch, alright? Y’know, don’t be a ‘stranger’.

ARCHIVIST
Georgie.

GEORGIE
Oh come on, that was classic Barker.

ARCHIVIST
I’m just not in the mood.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[MUFFLED SOUNDS OF THE STREET]
BREEKON
‘scuse us.

HOPE
Are you Jonathan Sims?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, wh -? Oh, sh -

[THE ARCHIVIST EXCLAIMS & COUGHS AS THE WIND IS KNOCKED OUT OF HIM]
BREEKON
Miss Orsinov wants to see you.

HOPE
She says she changed her mind.

ARCHIVIST
No, I - I -

[VAN DOOR SLIDES OPENS, THE ARCHVIST IS BUNDLED IN BREATHING HEAVILY]
[DOOR SLIDES SHUT AND THE ENGINE STARTS]
ARCHIVIST
Oh god.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Sorry again that the Archivist isn’t actually in today, um… but I should be… absolutely fine to take your statement if it, um, if that’s okay with you?

LYNNE
Er… yeah.

MARTIN
O-kay.

Um. Are you, are you comfortable?

LYNNE
Yeah.

MARTIN
Right. Right.

[THROAT CLEARING]
Statement of Lynne Hammond, er, recorded 2nd of May 2017, regarding…

Uh, what, what’s this one about?

LYNNE
I saw a ghost.

MARTIN
O-kay.. Regarding a… a ghost. Statement begins.

LYNNE
…

Sorry. What happens now?

MARTIN
Oh, er… [nervous chuckle] Well, I mean, you, you tell us what happened.

LYNNE
Well, yeah, I did. I saw a ghost.

MARTIN
Er, no, I mean, I mean, you, sort of, tell the story of -

LYNNE
Yeah. The story is: I saw a ghost.

MARTIN
Okay. But what, what was it like? How did it make you, er, feel?

LYNNE
Erm… it was… scary and it made me feel… scared.

I’m sorry. Am I doing this wrong?

MARTIN
Ah… no, no, no, it’s okay. Erm… Let’s, let’s try this again. Try this again…

When did you first see this ghost?

LYNNE
Oh… god. Erm… about a year ago.

MARTIN
Anything more specific than that?

LYNNE
Er, I mean it’s been a while. I can’t really remember -

MARTIN
Er… okay, okay. Er, where? Where, where did you see the ghost?

LYNNE
Uh, my old flat.

MARTIN
Okay, okay, great. Which … where’s that?

LYNNE
Clapton.

MARTIN
Clapton. Clapton, okay. And, erm, what, what were you doing when you saw the, when you saw the ghost?

LYNNE
Well, I was asleep.

MARTIN
…

You -

LYNNE
Well, I mean -

MARTIN
…saw a ghost when you were asleep?

LYNNE
No, no, obviously I woke up.

MARTIN
Right, right.

LYNNE
And… ghost.

MARTIN
Right. Erm…

LYNNE
Well, first it was, like… a burning smell.

MARTIN
Oh! Okay, okay. So… Did this happen a lot?

LYNNE
Yeah, yeah. A few nights.

MARTIN
Okay, right, so, like you’re, you’d wake up in the night, and you’d smell burning, and… what did you do?

LYNNE
Well… I first checked that my house wasn’t on fire.

MARTIN
Yeah… And then?

LYNNE
Go back to sleep.

MARTIN
And when it happened again, you would…?

LYNNE
Well, after a few times I realised, my house wasn’t on fire, so I’d just go straight back to sleep.

MARTIN
O-kay.

What, what happened the first time you saw the ghost?

LYNNE
I mean… [sigh] she was there…

MARTIN
Oh, it’s a ‘she’. Okay, okay. So describe the ghost to me. It’s, it’s a woman? A girl? A…

LYNNE
Yeah, yeah. A young woman.

MARTIN
And, and what was she doing?

LYNNE
I mean, she was on fire.

MARTIN
…

O-kay.

Erm, so, so she’s on fire. So what did you do? You’ve, you, you, you’re waking up in the night, and you’re seeing a… a woman is on fire in your flat, so you…?

LYNNE
I mean… what can you do? She wouldn’t be there for long.

MARTIN
Okay. Er… so, you didn’t call the police or…?

LYNNE
[Snorts] Well, no. I mean, it sounds a bit crazy, doesn’t it?

MARTIN
Okay, so…. So what is it that, sort of, made you… erm… [sighs]

Why are you here?

LYNNE
My friend told me that, y’know, this is where you report stuff like that, so…

MARTIN
O-kay.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[MOUTH SOUNDS WHILE SETTING UP RECORDER]
TIM
[Sounding tired] Right, so… tape’s on.

Who are you?

‘SMITH’
Er… I’m, um, I’m ‘Smith’.

TIM
Just ‘Smith’?

‘SMITH’
Um, ‘John’… ‘John Smith’. [Elongates vowels] ‘John Smith’.

TIM
Your name’s ‘John Smith’?

‘SMITH’
‘John Smith’.

TIM
[Very softly] Right, okay, good.

And… [heavy sigh] why are you here, ‘Smith’?

‘SMITH’
Er… well, um, I’m, I’m here coz, er… coz I have something to report. I’m, um, I’m worried.

TIM
Shouldn’t you be going to the police potentially?

‘SMITH’
Ah, I don’t think they can help with this. Um…

TIM
Right. And so… what, what brings you here? What do you need help with?

‘SMITH’
Well, I’ve, um, I’ve… er, I’ve seen some things.

TIM
Right.

‘SMITH’
I think, er, I’ve, I’ve heard, er, er, your, your, er, your field… Found a few web pages, er… long time ago.

TIM
And can we talk about why it is specifically that you’re here, Mr. Smith.

‘SMITH’
Sure, sure.

Um, so, so you know Aldwych Tube station?

TIM
I do.

‘SMITH’
Um, it’s not, it’s not a Tube station any more, obviously, it’s abandoned now. Um, but I was, I was there with, er, an, an associate, er, we’ll call him… ‘Jeremy’…

TIM
Right.

Good.

‘SMITH’
And, er… we, we broke into the, the Tube station-

[TIM SIGHS]
- ‘coz we wanted to, have a, have a look around, ‘coz y’know-

TIM
What drove you to break into a Tube station, Mr. Smith?

‘SMITH’
Well… It’s… It’s part of, part of London’s history, y’know. It’s public transport, it’s interesting.

TIM
And you wanted to see the interesting things?

‘SMITH’
Yeah. I mean, y’know, there’s still trains running though at the platform level but there’s no… there’s no, the station isn’t running any more, it’s been abandoned. So much of the things there are all in original condition. Like they’ve still got the original adverts up and things like that.

TIM
Right… okay.

‘SMITH’
From when they shut it down. ‘coz they’ve never been removed.

TIM
But why specifically there Mr. ‘Smith’?

‘SMITH’
Oh, well, I mean, we had, we had some ideas about what, what might be down there. Y’know, it’s not, not just the, not just the, y’know, the public transport stuff and the adverts. We thought… might be something a little bit, a little bit more… I dunno, something, something worth investigating.

Um. We were down there, in the tunnels, and… and then the torches went out. And I think… [sniffs] I think they took him.

TIM
“They”?

‘SMITH’
Yeah, them. Them.

TIM
Okay. And who are they?

‘SMITH’
Well, I mean, you, you must know? I mean, like, this is the Magnus Institute. I mean, like, you know this stuff, right? You know, the people who are down in the tunnels, y’know…

TIM
What people are down in the tunnels, Mr. ‘Smith’?

‘SMITH’
The Government.

TIM
[Sighs] The Government?

‘SMITH’
Yeah, yeah, the Government.

TIM
Wonderful.

‘SMITH’
They’re down… they’ve got, they’ve got a holding facility down there. It’s a secret holding facility.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
BASIRA
Right. Statement of… Robin Lennox?

ROBIN
Well… my friends call me Rob, well, some of, some of my friends call me Rob. Er… a lot of my friends, I guess some of them call me Robin. You can call me… er, if it makes it easier for you, then, yeah, that’s-

BASIRA
May 20th 2017. About a stone circle, I think. That’s what you said?

ROBIN
Erm, so it started, it started on, er, a day, when me and, er, me and Jackie, we were walking - Jackie’s my dog.

BASIRA
Okay

ROBIN
We were, we were walking down the South Downs, which is what we normally do, er, before we go visit my mother for a, for a roast. Um. We were walking down and, er-

Are you much of a dog person?

BASIRA
What day was it?

ROBIN
Um, so, this… when would this have been, now? Now, this was about, about two weeks ago, so what would, would, where are we now? Um, that would put it at, maybe, maybe the 6th, I think.

BASIRA
Okay.

ROBIN
Perhaps… So, so, me and Jackie were walking down, down our usual trail, down the South Downs, and, er, in Lewes, er, which, er, like I said, is where my mother lives. Um, so were walking, walking along just - er, Jackie just loves to run off the lash and just run, scour around the fields and-

BASIRA
Okay. So you were walking, a couple of weeks ago-

ROBIN
Er, that’s right, yes.

BASIRA
- it was about noon -

ROBIN
In the South Downs, yes.

BASIRA
- yes, in the South Downs.

ROBIN
And… off in the distance, something just caught my, something just caught my eye, and I, I have pretty good eyesight. I, er, I had them… had, had an eye test a few days ago -

BASIRA
Yes.

ROBIN
Y’know, one of those free ones that you get, you go along just for the sake of it -

BASIRA
What… What did you see?

ROBIN
Okay, right, so, I, I thought to myself that, that stone circle, that wasn’t there before. At least, I thought it was a cir- a stone circle. So, so, me and Jackie went off to investigate - Jackie’s quite a curious dog. Um, it’s quite a normal thing for Jack, er, Jack Russell terriers to be curious animals -

BASIRA
So you went to investigate that?

ROBIN
Right, yes. So, so, we, we were, we were walking towards this, er, this, what I thought was a stone circle. So, I was, sort of, walking towards it, and I, I really noticed it got, it got quite a lot chillier. So it was quite a sunny day -

BASIRA
Okay.

ROBIN
- erm, I hadn’t, I hadn’t taken a jacket. Y’know when you sort of look out the window and you’re like ‘Today’s a jacket day’ -

BASIRA
[Desperately trying to get him on track] So you thought… you saw this stone circle?

ROBIN
Oh yes, yeah.

BASIRA
Started walking towards it?

ROBIN
That’s right.

BASIRA
And then..?

ROBIN
Okay, so, so, yeah, it’s like I said, it was definitely, definitely a bit, definitely a bit chillier. Um, I don’t think there was any wind or anything that day, but it, yeah, just sort of, as I was walking towards it, felt, felt the chill. And I felt Jackie, sort of, start to walk closer to me. She started to run off a lot less, as if she sort of - I don’t know, maybe I just sort of noticed th- y’know when you sort of get a feeling for what mood a dog’s in, um, when you sort of spend a lot of time around them-

BASIRA
So, what about this stone circle?

ROBIN
Oh, the stone circle. So, so, I got closer, and I realised that, although I hadn’t seen, I hadn’t seen the stone circle before, but the, the, sort of texture of the rocks and, maybe a bit of, er, I dunno, they looked quite old. They, they definitely looked like they had been there for a long time, but that they, but I recall them definitely not being there, ‘cause, ‘cause, I’ve taken that route maybe five or six or… [mumbles] a few times now. When was the first time I took that route? I think that was with -

BASIRA
So you don’t remember seeing this before, but the rocks looked old?

ROBIN
Let me start again.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MELANIE
Alright then. Statement of… Brian… er… ‘Fentinson’?

BRIAN *
Oh, um, it’s, it’s, it’s… it’s Fin- Finlinson.

* (TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE: BRIAN IS A LOT MORE ‘ANGSTY’ AND STAMMERS MORE THAN CAN BE REALISTICALLY CAPTURED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT.)
MELANIE
Ah, right, sorry. That’s the… the handwriting here.

So. Statement regarding…

BRIAN
Sp-Spiders. B-B-But, I mean, lot, a lot of spiders!

MELANIE
Ah. Good. A spider one.

BRIAN
What?

MELANIE
Date: May 26th. And, er, go on… ah, let’s, let’s get this over with.

BRIAN
[Confused] Is… Look, is everything okay?

MELANIE
[Sighs] Yes. Yes, it’s, it’s fine. Sorry, I just, I just don’t hold out a lot of hope for… coherence.

BRIAN
What?

MELANIE
Our Archivist is on leave.

BRIAN
I don’t really. Look. I don’t really like staying in one place too long.

MELANIE
Fine. Statement begins.

BRIAN
Oh, um, I…

MELANIE
That means get started.

BRIAN
Oh, um, so… The spiders, they’re just, they’re all over my flat. Hundreds of spiders, and it’s freaky, like they just don’t act like spiders. And they’re leaving, like, web all over, all over my stuff, like on the sofa, and on like, on like, the microwave. Like, that’s weird, right? It’s not how spiders normally are.

MELANIE
[Interjecting] So… let’s, let’s, let’s, er, take this from a bit earlier. When did this start? When was the first “weird” spider?

BRIAN
A couple months? Nah, maybe a bit longer. Like, it, it started gradually, I guess. Like, y’know, I don’t like spiders, and sometimes, sure, there’s one in the bathroom, a little web or something, but that’s normal. And I just, y’know, asked a friend to deal with it or something. And, and then… Suddenly there were more spiders! Like the corner of every room. And it’s freaky ‘cause there’s, like, different types of spider. And different…

MELANIE *
Right.

* (TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE: THROUGHOUT BRIAN’S STATEMENT, MELANIE REPEATEDLY MAKES GENERAL NOISES OF AGREEMENT OR ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.)
BRIAN
And they don’t normally, like, gather in groups of different species. It’s different species of spider, isn’t it?

MELANIE
[Stuttering somewhat] I-I-I-I’m not familiar…

BRIAN
I feel like they’re watching me!

MELANIE
What do you mean? Are they looking… at you?

BRIAN
They, they, they sort of move when I move. And, like, when I, when I go into a different room, I feel like there’s a, there’s a flow of spiders to the same room, or- But they don’t let me touch them, or, or, if I try and whack ‘em with a newspaper, they don’t let me get near!

MELANIE
Right.

BRIAN
And then… and the weirdest thing was when I asked an exterminator to come and look at the problem. They all disappeared! It’s like the first time I’d been, there’d been no spiders in weeks. And then suddenly, as soon as he leaves, they all come back! It’s like suddenly they’re there again!

MELANIE
[Trying to interrupt] Was… was… was that maybe the first time there had been another… person… looking at, at your flat?

BRIAN
Um. Well, I mean, I guess so? But no, ‘cause like-

MELANIE
Trying to pick this apart…

BRIAN
- I haven’t, haven’t invited someone to come over ‘cause there’s spiders and webs everywhere. But like - but there’s - I mean -

MELANIE
And the webbing…?

BRIAN
- Just think it’s the other day, they webbed, they webbed my bedroom door shut. I mean, that’s weird, right? Like, enough spiders leave enough web to seal the door. And they trapped me in there with the, all those spiders. That’s not normal, right?! That’s freaky! That’s supernatural!

MELANIE
But -

BRIAN
That’s what you guys do, isn’t it?

MELANIE
It does sound unusual…

BRIAN
Like, the supernatural, right?

MELANIE
Um… I mean, we’re, we’re an investigative… unit, but we’re…

BRIAN
I just wanted some help! Like, I heard you guys like… I thought if you know about the supernatural, maybe you could help me deal with this!

MELANIE
I… really wish that was the case.

BRIAN
[Distressed] Oh god!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
LYNNE
Yeah, and then… she… er, reached out to me.

MARTIN
Oh, okay. Okay, right, so she reached out, um, and then… what, what happened? She reached out to you, so what did you do?

LYNNE
Er… Well, not a lot.

MARTIN
Right.

Um, and, and then she just… disappeared like normal?

LYNNE
I mean… she burned me a bit.

MARTIN
Oh! Oh wow! Okay, er, like, are you okay? Did you-

LYNNE
Oh.

MARTIN
Was there, was there a lot of damage? Are you - Is there…?

LYNNE
No, no, no. It’s… er, just, just a few hairs. My right arm. I mean they, they’ve grown back.

MARTIN
Like, like a few hairs? So then…

And then she disappeared and you…?

LYNNE
I went back to sleep.

[MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH
MARTIN
Right. Erm…

And, well, then what happened? So, y’know, y’know, you’ve been burned by this, mys-mysterious ghost, so what did you do?

LYNNE
I mean, I moved out.

MARTIN
And nothing… nothing since then?

LYNNE
Well, no. I’ve, I’ve moved.

MARTIN
Right.

Erm, I’m - I don’t suppose you’ve looked into the, the history of the building, or anything?

LYNNE
Why?

MARTIN
O-kay. Erm… Statement ends. I guess. Er… okay, yeah, great, um.

LYNNE
Cool.

MARTIN
Thanks so much for coming. Really appreciate it.

Erm, yeah, if you… yeah, if you head out, um, by the way that you came in, there’s a woman at the front desk, she’ll take your details down…

LYNNE
Great.

MARTIN
…and then we might, y’know, might be in contact about it in the future if we, if we do any follow up, and need, need to talk to you about any specifics again, but… that probably won’t…

LYNNE
Oh. You, you got everything then, yeah? That’s…

MARTIN
Erm… Yeah. Yeah. Y’know what, yeah. I think, I think that’s basically it, y’know. Th-Thanks so much for coming in, though. We do appreciate it.

LYNNE
Cool.

I know. Cool.

…

Er…

MARTIN
S-Sorry, is there, there is something else that, um…?

LYNNE
No, I just, just thought that maybe you would…

MARTIN
Er…

LYNNE
I mean, do I get… a… piece of paper or something?

To…

MARTIN
No, no, it’s fine. It’s, it’s, it’s fine.

LYNNE
…say that I’ve done it?

MARTIN
We, we, we keep an internal record.

LYNNE
I mean, do I… Is there, like… an invoice or something? I…

MARTIN
[Confused] In…? An… invoice?

For…?

LYNNE
I mean, just, just, my friend Gav said that, y’know, you guys… you need stories, and you need people to come forward, so…

MARTIN
Yeah, yeah…

LYNNE
And you… kind of…

You pay up people for their ghost stories, so…

MARTIN
Oh! Er, ah… [Nervous chuckle] I, I think there might be a bit of a, er, er, mis-miscommunication here-

LYNNE
Oh!

Oh, right, okay.

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah… We don’t actually, um… er, we don’t pay for, pay for statements.

LYNNE
Right.

MARTIN
This is, this is more, a, er, documenting process than… er, we don’t use these for, um, for stuff outside of -

LYNNE
Okay.

MARTIN
- r-r-records.

Ahh. I’m really sorry. Er…

LYNNE
Oh. I mean, I mean, that’s why I -

Er, no, y’know, okay, but that’s fine.

[MOMENTS OF EMBARRASSED MUMBLINGS]
MARTIN
Er…

Um…

Y’know what… Sorry. Um. Let’s see what I’ve got…

[MOURNFUL SOUNDS OF MARTIN’S LOOSE CHANGE]
I mean, I’ve got… I mean… get a coffee, I…

LYNNE
Y’know what? You’re, you’re alright.

MARTIN
No, no, please, please? I…

LYNNE
Oh, alright.

MARTIN
Y’know, er…

LYNNE
Thanks, thanks.

MARTIN
…like, like a macchiato, or…

LYNNE
Mm.

MARTIN
I mean, maybe not that much.

LYNNE
Okay, so, um… just the way out…

[TRANSFER OF COINS]
MARTIN
Yeah.

LYNNE
…the way I came in?

MARTIN
Yeah, please. If that’s… yeah.

[DOOR OPENS & CLOSES]
[MARTIN SIGHS WEARILY]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
[Wearily] Mr. Smith…

‘SMITH’
[Irate] Look, Jeremy, is somewhere, under London, right now, having… bioweapons tested on him! Yeah! Like, and I know that, 100% certain, coz it’s a fact!

TIM
I think you might possibly be looking for a different agency…

‘SMITH’
Well, I, I think so! I came here, because I have uncovered, like, a massive government conspiracy, yeah. And what are you doing? You’re like… you’re what? Just frowning at me sceptically.

TIM
It’s possible you should take that to someone else, Mr. Smith.

‘SMITH’
Well! Well probably! Probably I should do that!

Coz that’s a fat lot of use you are! Mendacists! You’re rubbish!

[TIM SIGHS HEAVILY, OBSCURING MR. SMITH’S PARTING WORDS]
TIM
Statement ends.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ROBIN
Yeah, people have always said to me that Jack Russells can be difficult dogs, but I’ve always found that, that, as long as you, sort of, treat them right, and, you know, give them lots of treats, and it’s, it’s really quite -

BASIRA
[Getting exasperated] So you were in the spiral, and you heard an old man crying?

ROBIN
As I was meandering around, and you know when you hear, you, you hear someone crying, but you, you, but you definitely sort of say that’s, that’s… that’s, there’s an age in that voice. Like it sounded… like, if you, have you heard many old men crying?

BASIRA
[Sharply interjects] So you were following…?

ROBIN
Yes, that’s right. So, you know how, sort of, at places like Hampton Court, where they’ve got those little hedge mazes, and rather than, sort of, bounding straight into the middle of them, where you can just sort of walk over all the hedges, you have to, you have to, sort of, follow it through, er, I’ve, it sort of put in me in mind of that. As, er, as I sort of imagine myself in… exploring that maze -

BASIRA
So you followed the maze?

ROBIN
So I followed the, so I, yeah, so I followed the spiral, the spiral round and, er, I could definitely hear this sort of old man crying. And it d-d- It was definitely an old man, ‘cause it really reminded me of, er, this old chap I met once on a train, er, going, going to Liverpool. Er, he was, he was -

BASIRA
Mmmm, so… So what happened?

ROBIN
So, so… as I was going round, and, and hearing this old man, erm, I suddenly, suddenly realised that I was going to be late for… I was going to be late for my mum’s dinner that she had planned, er -

BASIRA
You… But… didn’t you say it was, it was about noon?

ROBIN
Well, that was the funny thing. So, you see, I, I looked at my watch, and I realised that six hours had gone by.

BASIRA
Six… Six hours?!

ROBIN
Yes, that’s right. So, er, at that point, I, I left.

BASIRA
…

I’m sorry?

ROBIN
Yes, so I would, I would have been late for dinner, so…

BASIRA
So you left?

ROBIN
So I got out of the spiral, and went to dinner.

BASIRA
…

[BAFFLED VOCALISATIONS]
Statement ends… I suppose.

ROBIN
Is, is, is that all you need from me?

BASIRA
[Emphatically] Yep.

ROBIN
Are you sure?

BASIRA
Yep!

ROBIN
You don’t, you don’t need anything -

BASIRA
Absolutely!

ROBIN
You want any more details -

BASIRA
Nope! Thank you Mr. Lennox.

ROBIN
Okay.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
BRIAN
[Highly anguished] …and I just, I dunno what to do anymore! I think they were following me. I think they followed me here! I saw a spider in the basement outside. And, and the webbing, it just…

it had this webbing, the sticky kind… and I just… I don’t know how I can keep… I just need… This is the first time I’ve been in a room where I haven’t seen a spider -

MELANIE (BACKGROUND) *
I…

Please, just…

There’s, there’s tea there.

Okay. Right. Yes.

Okay, breathe.

Yeah… well…

Drink, drink the tea.

* (TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE: MELANIE AND BRIAN’S SPEECH OCCUR SOMEWHAT CONCURRENTLY, AS SHE TRIES TO GET HIM TO CALM DOWN.)
BRIAN
- and maybe this is safe -

MELANIE
[Laughingly strangled] No-o-o-o-o. No.

BRIAN
- or maybe they’re outside. I just don’t know!

MELANIE
It’s really…

BRIAN
I don’t know how else-

MELANIE
It’s really not safe.

BRIAN
[Wheezing distressedly] - carry on!

MELANIE
I’ll, I’ll get you some biscuits. I’ll get you, I’ll get you, I’ll get you… something… Just breathe!

Breathe for me…

[BRIAN TAKES SOME CALMING DEEP BREATHS]
Okay, yes.

Good. Good.

[DOOR OPENS & CLOSES AS BRIAN CONTINUES TO BREATHE DEEPLY]
BRIAN
Sorry. I know I shouldn’t…

I guess that’s… that’s everything. I, I just don’t…

Oh.

[CHAIR SCRAPING ON FLOOR]
[Calling out] H-Hello?

Sorry. Did I…?

I don’t, don’t know…

[MORE CHAIR SCRAPING]
Should I just… go?

Hello?

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
PETER
Excuse me?

BRIAN
[Taken aback] Woah.

PETER
Do you work here?

BRIAN
Oh, er… no, I… Hi.

PETER
I’m looking for Elias Bouchard? He runs this Institute. I do have an appointment.

BRIAN
I don’t, um… I’m, I’m sorry. I was just, um… but everyone… just went.

Sorry. B-Brian. B-Brian Finlinson.

PETER
[Brightly] Peter Lukas. Lovely to meet you, Brian.

Now. Am I to understand you don’t work here?

BRIAN
No… I was just, um… making a statement, or, or whatever. Um…

PETER
That’s probably for the best. Elias can be quite… ‘protective’ of his people. Never really understood why. I mean, in the end, the only person that you really have is yourself.

Wouldn’t you agree, Brian?

BRIAN
[Thoroughly confused] I don’t… What?

PETER
Well. Plenty of time to make your mind up, I’m, I’m sure.

Now… If you’ll excuse me, like I said, I have an appointment to get to. You are sure you don’t know where Elias Bouchard’s office is?

BRIAN
No.

I’m, I’m sorry.

PETER
Not to worry. I’m sure I can find it.

And I’m sure you need some time to get used to your new situation.

BRIAN
[Softly] What?

PETER
Good luck Brian.

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
BRIAN
Yeah… Thanks… Uh… I - Oh.

Hello?

H-Hello?

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[LOW BACKGROUND SOUNDS, POSSIBLY VOCAL; VOICES SOUND AS IF SOMEWHERE BELOW GROUND]
ORSINOV
[Sing-song] Oh, it does work! What have you been recording? Anything spooky?

ARCHIVIST
[GAGGED REPLY]
ORSINOV
Is it… your Elias who listens?

Helloooooo!

[MORE MUFFLED WORDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
He’s mine now, and you can’t have him back.

[BACKGROUND HUMMING IS NOW POSITIVELY CHORAL]
ARCHIVIST
[QUESTIONING SOUNDS]
ORSINOV
Oh, don’t worry, it’s not for you. You won’t even need a coffin - we’re going to use every piece of you.

ARCHIVIST
[MUFFLED EXCLAMATION]
ORSINOV
Now could you two please move that thing somewhere far, far away?

BREEKON
Not really.

HOPE
Needs to be near us.

ORSINOV
Well, just… just move yourselves away, and take it with you.

BREEKON
Gotcha

HOPE
Right you are.

[CHAINS RATTLE AS THEY PICK UP THE COFFIN AND DEPART; CHORAL HUM FADES, REPLACED BY BACKGROUND SOUND OF RAIN OUTSIDE, SOMEWHERE]
ORSINOV
Right. Where were we?

ARCHIVIST
[MUFFLED INDIGNATION]
ORSINOV
Oh, of course! So, Elias, can I call you Elias? Let me set the scene, as I know you can’t actually see this. He’s tied to a chair - Sarah wanted to use nails, but I talked her out of it because I’m a good friend. You’re welcome. And he is absolutely surrounded with waxworks. Not… good waxworks, though. Weird ones. Wax faces where you feel like you almost recognise who it’s meant to be, but, then instead… ah, it’s downright uncanny!

ARCHIVIST
[MORE MUFFLED INDIGNATION, POSSIBLY MUFFLED SWEARING TOO]
ORSINOV
Excuse me! I’m talking to your boss, and I would thank you not to interrupt.

[ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO GRUNT THROUGHOUT]
You know, I must say Elias, can I call you Elias? You have not raised this one very well.

ARCHIVIST
[MUFFLED REFUTATION?]
ORSINOV
He is rude. And he just will not stop asking questions. Ooh, but now, I can ask the questions! How are you feeling?

ARCHIVIST
[MUFFLED FEELINGS]
ORSINOV
Oh, wonderful. Now, about the whole skin thing… You see, originally, I was just planning to have you followed, in case you found that ancient relic one. I mean, my goodness, it is very powerful. And if you didn’t come through, well, you’re quite powerful yourself, and more than that, you are… symbolically appropriate [chuckles] so I thought you’d make a lovely frock!

ARCHIVIST
[MUFFLED PANIC]
ORSINOV
Exactly! And, well, I was going to wait, but… y’know, have you ever had one of those backup plans that, when you think about it, they’re, they’re just more fun? So, I thought, out with the old, in with… well, in with the you!

ARCHIVIST
[PADDED PANICKY PROSTESTATIONS]
ORSINOV
Oh, no, I’m afraid he can’t See you, can you Elias, can I call you Elias? What’s the point of having a secret place of power if you can’t hide it from a big, stupid eye? Anyway, you sit tight. Lots to do! Ooh, also, do you have preferred brand of lotion? Because you have not been taking care of your skin, and we really do need it in better shape before we peel you.

ARCHIVIST
[EVEN MORE MUFFLED INDIGNATION]
ORSINOV
Alright, I’ll just ask them to pick up a selection.

[FOOTSTEPS LEAVE AND A DOOR CLOSES]
[THE ARCHIVIST IS BREATHING HEAVILY]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[STILL RAINING]
[THE ARCHIVIST IS STILL BREATHING]
[STATICKY LAUGHTER FADES INTO HEARING]
[A DIFFERENT DOOR OPENS]
MICHAEL
Oh… Oh… Oh, Archivist. What have you done now? It’s almost sad to see you like this.

ARCHIVIST
[LOW IRRITATED GROAN]
MICHAEL
Almost.

I’ve come to a decision, Archivist. I’m going to kill you.

ARCHIVIST
[FRUSTRATED GROAN]
MICHAEL
It’s earlier than I had hoped, but that’s life… I suppose. Your life. [Giggles] Before I do, however, I want you to understand… even if it does go against my nature. So.

[THE GAG IS REMOVED; THE ARCHIVIST GASPS]
[Enunciating each word carefully] Ask your questions.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MICHAEL
Ask me.

ARCHIVIST
H-How did you find me?

MICHAEL
[Giggles] The Eye watches, and the Stranger conceals, but me… I lie, Archivist. I am the throat of delusion incarnate. They can’t hide you from me.

[GASPS AS THE ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO RECOVER]
ARCHIVIST
What do you have to do with the Unknowing?

MICHAEL
Nothing. [Giggles] Nothing whatsoever. Except perhaps that I would like it to fail.

ARCHIVIST
So… wh - Why are you here?

MICHAEL
I already said. To kill you.

ARCHIVIST
But - But why?

MICHAEL
Because I don’t want the Circus to win. And I don’t want the Archives to, either. Killing you myself… it’s the best of both. And, of course, there’s revenge.

ARCHIVIST
Revenge? I still don’t even know who you are!

MICHAEL
I am Michael. I was not always Michael. I do not want to be Michael. Being Michael stole the only purpose I have ever known.

ARCHIVIST
You were Gertrude’s assistant, weren’t you?

MICHAEL
No.

ARCHIVIST
But, but the tape - I heard you.

MICHAEL
[Slowly] No. You heard Michael.

[FRUSTRATED SOUNDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST
I… What the hell are you talking about?!

MICHAEL
Quiet, Archivist. The cramped casket sings loud, but not loud enough to drown out screaming. The Michael on that tape was not me. When that person was Michael, I was something else, and now I am Michael, and that person is gone.

ARCHIVIST
So, what… You… you became him?

MICHAEL
No more than he became me. It is rare that someone I take finds their way into being me, but it does happen. And Michael had help.

ARCHIVIST
What happened?

MICHAEL
Hm…

Ahhh, a statement. Of course. Is your recorder running?

Yes. Say it, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
Statement of… Michael. Taken from subject. Date…

MICHAEL
The last day of the Archivist’s life.

ARCHIVIST
Statement begins.

MICHAEL (STATEMENT)
How far back should it go? To the beginning of me? Centuries? Millennia? How you define the start of your being when in some ways you have always been? Time is difficult to form. Michael Shelley, though, he is easier to keep track of. He was born. He was pointless. And he should have died. But before that could happen, he went to work for the Magnus Institute - that ivory tower, keeping its prisoners ignorant in pursuit of… knowledge. [Giggles] A dungeon full of idiot watchers. And Michael Shelley was no exception.

When he was in school, he lost a friend to something like me. His friend was named Ryan, but those in power simply called him schizophrenic. I don’t know if he was, but it doesn’t matter. He was so dreadfully afraid his world wasn’t real that to make it so was almost nothing. Michael was there when he taken; he never got over what he saw. Or didn’t see. After much searching and despair, it drove him into the waiting arms of the Institute, where he met Gertrude Robinson. The Archivist.

Even being what I am, I have rarely seen anyone so adept at distorting the truth as Gertrude Robinson. Michael was protective of the frail old woman he believed her to be. So… so delicate, so forgetful, yet gently wise. He cared for her. He trusted her. And she fed him to me. She made him me to destroy our transcendence. And she did not hesitate.

Poor Michael. He had been on trips for the Institute before. Conferences, investigations, Gertrude had made sure that all her assistants were ready. That none of them would be suspicious if they were told they were going abroad for work. So there was no doubt in his mind, no concern, when she told him that they were travelling to Russia. Perhaps if he’d have stopped to look up their destination, he might have discovered there was no such place as Zemlya Sannikova, but he did not. He trusted her.

Even when they arrived in Dikson, at the edge of the Kara Sea, and they were picked up by a quiet sea captain called Peter Lukas… Even then he trusted her. They travelled north, through cold far more bitter than any Michael had even conceived possible. And do you know what he worried about? [Giggles] He… worried about Gertrude Robinson. About how this poor old woman might cope with the chill. But now she was like iron, and walked with a purpose that Michael had never before seen in her. The water turned to ice as the Arctic approached, and Gertrude’s eyes turned cold.

Then, at last, he began to be afraid. He asked her where they were going and was told again: Zemlya Sannikova. Sannikov Land. There was a great evil, she said, and Michael was going to help her fight it. Am I evil, Archivist? Is a thing evil when it simply obeys its own nature? When it embodies its nature? When that nature is created by those which revile it? Perhaps Gertrude believed so. Michael certainly did. He believed everything she told him.

And it was me they sought to stop. Me and the others of It-Is-Not-What-It-Is. Our Great Twisting. The-Worker-of-Clay had laboured for decades on that contorted, impossible edifice of doors… and stairs… and falsehoods… and smiles. A thousand staring morsels stood, and not one of them believed themselves sane to look upon it. And in the centre, the door that would open to all the places that were never there, was me. I use the word ‘apotheosis’ not because it is correct, but because I can only show you its truth when we are within the passages themselves.

And this is what Michael and Gertrude found when they set foot on Sannikov Land, which does not exist and never has. It was warm, and feeling its reassurance beneath his feet was the last time poor, doomed Michael knew comfort. They walked through the green jungle of that forever-elusive polar island, and up the gentle mountains that can never have a name. And at the top, they found us through our spiralling laughter. And they saw us in all of our glory.

Michael did not go mad, though no words you could have said would have convinced him otherwise. The mind does not shatter, Archivist. It is soft and malleable. It bends and twists and returns to what it was, though what you see and feel may leave their mark upon it. If Michael thought he had lost his mind, it was only because what he saw with crystal clarity was simply not something that could be real.

But Gertrude Robinson did not waver. She did not… hesitate. She gave no indication that she saw anything more or less than was expected. Hers was not a mind that left room for doubt. She stared into us carefully, her eyes scanning for something that was my heart. Looking for my door. And she found it.

Perhaps I should have realised what was happening; seen those two lonely figures approaching me, but I cannot tell you the existential joys of truly… becoming. Of an entireness finally crossing the threshold into your self. So ecstatic was my completeness, I did not even hear my own door creak open. Because Gertrude had told Michael how he could stop us. She told him to walk through a door. And even then, with so much of his mind shut down in panic and terror, he trusted her. And he went inside, closing the door behind him.

But Gertrude Robinson had given poor, disposable Michael one more thing before sending him to me. She had given him a map. I couldn’t say how she would have gotten such a thing, or if she somehow made it. And yet it was a map. A map to me. It made no sense, lines overlapping and inverting, but once within, Michael knew which turns to make, which doors to open, which mirrors to shatter. Until he became me.

Even sharper than the joy of becoming is the agony of being opened and remade. To have your who torn bloody from your what, and another crudely lashed into its place. To become Michael. And to do so at such a crucial point in our Twisting, in our becoming, well of course it destroyed it. The impossible altar collapsed. The-Worker-of-Clay tore out his veins to dissolve himself in crimson mud. The others of us were cast to all the places that aren’t; some have still not found their way out again. And somehow, Gertrude Robinson was back on that boat before Sannikov Land once again never existed.

And all that was left was me. Michael. [Giggles] My very existence tied to my pointlessness. Wearing my failure as the very fabric of my being. Reduced once again to feeding on the unsuspecting and confused. That is who I am.

[DEEP GASP FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST
But you… You never tried to take revenge on Gertrude?

MICHAEL
She knew how to protect herself. She knew what she was creating. And killing her was not as important. She wasn’t as good an Archivist as you are.

ARCHIVIST
So why not kill me before?

MICHAEL
I had hoped that you would stop the Unknowing first, destroy the workings of I-Do-Not-Know-You. But instead you are here, and may bring it about faster. So better your death happens now.

ARCHIVIST
I - Is there anything I can do to stop you from killing me?

MICHAEL
[Laughs] If you scream loud enough the Circus may take notice of me, but… I promise you will die far more pleasantly with me than with them.

[MORE LAUGHTER]
Ah…

[RAIN CONTINUES TO FALL]
ARCHIVIST
…

[Defeated] Okay.

MICHAEL
Good. Right this way.

[A DOOR CREAKS]
Open it. Open it, and all this will be over.

[THE ARCHIVIST TURNS THE HANDLE AND HEARS AN ENGAGED LOCK]
ARCHIVIST
Er, it’s…

[HANDLE IS TRIED TWICE MORE]
MICHAEL
What?

ARCHIVIST
It’s locked.

MICHAEL
It’s not. [Giggles]

ARCHIVIST
Why is it locked?

MICHAEL
It can’t be!

ARCHIVIST
Well, you try it!

[FRANTIC HANDLE TURNING - THE LOCK CONTINUES TO CLICK]
MICHAEL
[Worried] Th-Tha-That-That’s… not -

[Realisation dawns] Oh. Oh no.

[DISTORTED SCREAMS OF PAINFUL AND TERMINAL OPENING]
[THE NEW DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
HELEN
Do you want to come in?

ARCHIVIST
Wh… Helen? H-Helen Richardson? But… But y - Michael…

HELEN
Michael isn’t me. Not now.

ARCHIVIST
What happened?

HELEN
He got… distracted. Let feelings that shouldn’t have been his overwhelm me.

Lost my way.

ARCHIVIST
And now? Y - You’re Helen?

HELEN
I don’t know. I never know, not really. Do I need a name?

ARCHIVIST
Ah… No, I s-suppose not.

HELEN
Helen is… better than Michael.

ARCHIVIST
But she’s gone.

HELEN
Yes. As is Michael. There’s only me.

ARCHIVIST
I… Okay.

HELEN
Do you still want to leave here?

ARCHIVIST
A-are you still going to kill me?

HELEN
No. That was Michael’s desire, not mine.

ARCHIVIST
So… S-So what do you want?

HELEN
I don’t know. Helen liked you, so… there’s a lot to consider. But I will help you leave.

ARCHIVIST
Wait, is this… Mic - Y-You’re the Distortion, the, the, the Liar. How do I know this isn’t… a, a trick?

HELEN
And if it was, what would you do about it?

ARCHIVIST
…

Right. Right…

[Plaintive] How long have I… b-been here? There’s no… It was hard to keep track -

HELEN
Time is hard, Archivist. It’s difficult to follow without a proper mind, especially here. A while.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

HELEN
The door is open, if you’re ready?

ARCHIVIST
No, not, not really, but…

[DEEP SIGH FOLLOWED BY STATIC]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Look, John, I understand you’re upset.

ARCHIVIST
A month, Elias. And you did what, nothing?

ELIAS
I was doing everything in my power to locate you.

[DISMISSIVE SNORT FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
Everyone was working on finding the ritual site.

ARCHIVIST
You didn’t tell them I’d been kidnapped, though, did you?

ELIAS
It wouldn’t have helped matters. Martin’s research, at least, would have been sloppier.

ARCHIVIST
And imagine what might have happened if your rescue had been slower.

ELIAS
Sarcasm isn’t going to help, John.

ARCHIVIST
The only thing here that “isn’t going to help” is you. I am sick of relying on the kindness of things whose stated intention is to kill me.

ELIAS
[Irritated] I am sorry, John, that my powers have not yet reached the level of omniscience. And I am sorry that I have to spend so much time trying to help you develop your own faculties, rather than explaining everything to you like a child. But you have a job to do, and I cannot fight your battles for you.

ARCHIVIST
As far as I can tell, the only battles I’ve been fighting have been yours and Gertrude’s.

ELIAS
I should have thought preventing the horrific transformation of our world is not solely my concern!

ARCHIVIST
…

Fine. At least we now know you’re of zero practical use here. So aside from sending me other people’s statements, what can you actually do to help?

ELIAS
I have been trying to give you the information you need.

ARCHIVIST
Sure, when you’re not bashing its head in with a pipe.

ELIAS
Leitner was… I will admit I possibly… overreacted to his sudden re-emergence.

ARCHIVIST
He could have helped.

ELIAS
You? No. To you he offered nothing but the crutch of simple answers. If I hadn’t stepped in he could have significantly stunted your development. Left you defenceless.

ARCHIVIST
[Sarcastically] Yeah. I can’t imagine what it must feel like to be defenceless.

ELIAS
I do regret…

Gertrude’s notes on the Unknowing are… lacking. I only shared the statements for a reason.

ARCHIVIST
S - You didn’t even know why you were sending me them to me, did you? Just, what, a box of random files she labelled? You were hoping I could figure out the reason Gertrude chose them!

ELIAS
There is a possibility some of them were misfiled.

[DEEP BREATH]
ARCHIVIST
So what do we actually know?

ELIAS
John-

[TABLE SLAP FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST
Don’t you dare “John” me. If you want my help, I’m going to need that crutch.

ELIAS
Gertrude believed that the Unknowing was going to take the form of a dance. It required a great deal of intact human skin to clothe what she referred to as the, er, the “corpse de ballet”, though I suspect that’s just her sense of humour. There is also one, the “Danseuse Étoile” that requires a costume of special power or distinction. Gertrude believed that Orsinov and his circus created a dancer specifically for this role.

ARCHIVIST
I-I’ve met it. Calls itself Nikola.

ELIAS
There’s also something else in the notes she calls the Choir, but no real detail on that. As far as where it will happen, it’s a, a -

ARCHIVIST
A wax museum. Old, mostly a-abandoned, I think. I-I don’t know exactly where, but -

ELIAS
That still narrows it down significantly. I’ll, I’ll have the others start digging.

ARCHIVIST
How do we - How do I stop it?

ELIAS
Gertrude seemed to think that once the dance begins it’s tied to its location. Sufficiently disrupting that might be enough to derail the ritual. She mentioned she had acquired… something, for this purpose, but she gave no detail as to exactly what that might be.

ARCHIVIST
And you can’t just… See where she put it.

ELIAS
She was… She got very good at hiding things from me.

ARCHIVIST
How embarrassing for you. Is there anyone else who might know what it is, or, or where? Aside from Leitner, or Gerard?

ELIAS
Sorry, Gerard Keay?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… yes?

ELIAS
How did you… Who, who told you he was working with Gertrude?

ARCHIVIST
No-one, I-I-I just… I read it in one of the statements.

ELIAS
I don’t think you did.

ARCHIVIST
But… ah…

ELIAS
You just knew it.

ARCHIVIST
What, no, I… Th- That’s not a-

ELIAS
No, no, no. No, John, this is good. It’s a promising development.

ARCHIVIST
[Getting flustered] No, No I… It’s just, it’s just… just deduction or -

ELIAS
Is this the first time it’s happened?

ARCHIVIST
Look, look, I don’t - Look… Haaa… Gerard’s not really a lead. He’s dead. Isn’t he?

ELIAS
Yes, but I believe he and Gertrude travelled together, shortly before he passed away. Perhaps if we could retrace their steps, we might find something.

ARCHIVIST
And by “we”, you of course mean…

ELIAS
I’ll see if I can hunt down a few relevant statem - Ahh.

ARCHIVIST
What?

ELIAS
[Sighs] Melanie is on her way up here with a knife. Could you talk to her for me?

ARCHIVIST
O-ah. S-Sorry, what?

ELIAS
She’s hoping that even if I see it coming she’ll still be able to overpower me.

ARCHIVIST
Ah-

ELIAS
She’s wrong, of course, but I’d be keen to avoid that sort of struggle.

ARCHIVIST
She, She’s trying to kill you?

ELIAS
Yes. Again. Even more than the others she has a visceral hatred of being trapped. Regardless of how much freedom I afford her.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - Uh…

[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
ELIAS
Come in, Melanie.

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Elias, hi, just brought-

ARCHIVIST
Ah…

MELANIE
What are you doing here?

ARCHIVIST
Put the knife down, Melanie.

Melanie!

MELANIE
[Angrily] Get out of my way!

ARCHIVIST
I don’t believe - This isn’t the way.

MELANIE
You haven’t been here! You don’t know-

ARCHIVIST
I was kidnapped!

MELANIE
Oh. Sorry.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, yeah El-Elias… is-

MELANIE
Seriously?! Seriously? You too? Has he got everyone fooled? If he dies, we die? It’s not even a good lie.

ARCHIVIST
Why would- I mean, why would it not be true? If he’s managed to, to bind us… Why wouldn’t he be able to, to do that?

MELANIE
John, look at me. There is only one way out of this, and it is through him.

ARCHIVIST
I get, I get that you hate being here, Melanie, but do you really want to trade it for prison?

MELANIE
No! But the way I see it, the police seem really keen not to investigate crimes committed here.

ELIAS
That’s actually fair.

ARCHIVIST
Shut up!

Melanie, please.

MELANIE
[Frustrated anger] It’s not just being stuck here, John. It’s not just me. He’s manipulating you, he’s manipulating all of us. Can you seriously not see that? He’s pulling all the strings, and I don’t think there’s any other way to stop it. So get out of my way.

ARCHIVIST
Look, I - I’m sorry, Melanie, but we need him. We, We will… We will find a way to deal with i- with him. Not today. A-And not like this.

ELIAS
I am still here, you know.

ARCHIVIST
And if you weren’t, I assume you would be watching this conversation, so… Melanie, we can’t do this. Not yet.

MELANIE
…

Alright.

[METAL CLINKS ON TABLE]
We’ll try it your way. But whatever your way actually is, you’d better figure it out fast. Because it is your fault that I’m here. Fix it, or get out of the way!

[DOOR SLAMS SHUT]
ELIAS
Thank you, John.

ARCHIVIST
[Hissed] Shut up!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of François Deschamps, regarding the family and presumed marriage of Benoît Maçon. Statement given June 4th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Why do you need me to live it over again? To recount a story you know well enough already.

You were there, at least for the parts worth discussing. You want me to tell you what happened before then? How I met Benoît? His character? How he became my friend?

Truth be told, he was not my friend. He was simply a colleague, someone I might describe myself as well-disposed to, but probably not even that. It may seem dismissive to you, but in my experience there are two situations where one finds themselves working behind a bar when over the age of forty. The first is that you own the establishment yourself, what the English call ‘a publican’, and see no reason to hire others to perform duties you are quite capable of yourself.

The second is when a profound failure in your life has brought you to the middle of your life with no wealth, no prospects, and no skills that could be applied in more lucrative avenues. Suffice it to say that Benoît Maçon did not own Le Papillon Blanc.

It was not one of the most fashionable spots in Toulouse, sitting just on the edge of where the tourist-facing centre meets the firmly residential, and never quite settling on either side. It billed as a cafe in the day, but most of its business was after dark, when all pretence was dropped, and it became simply a comparatively cheap place to drink. I worked the bar there with Benoît and a few others, and had done for a couple of years since I left school. Of all the others who worked Le Papillon alongside me, I would probably have said that Benoît was the one who interested me the least. There was an air of sadness about him, a melancholy that I found unsurprising, given the position he had found himself in, but distasteful nonetheless. My own life has certainly had its hardships, and I cannot help but detest those who indulge in self-pity. Though… having seen his fate, perhaps some pity was earned.

Benoît was, as far as I could tell, all alone in the world, and rather unhappy about the fact. It was rare that the topic of parents or family would be raised or discussed without his appearing, as if from nowhere, to quietly volunteer the fact that his parents were dead, or his lack of siblings, or whatever it might have been. Whatever familial bond was the topic of conversation, Benoît Maçon did not have it, and expected, no, demanded that you pity him for the fact. It will not surprise you to learn he wore no wedding ring. That when a young couple would enter the cafe to pass their time in wine and affection, he would simply stare at them, his face a mask of ill-concealed envy. I am deeply grateful it was rare that we had children in Le Papillon, as the one time they came in while he was on shift with him, he vanished for almost twenty minutes and, when he returned, it was clear he’d been crying. All told, he was a pathetic, lonely man desperate for any human connection. A connection I had no intention of offering him.

Quite frankly, I believe I have spoken more words about Benoît Maçon in the last five minutes than I did in all the many months we worked together. I wasn’t even the one that noticed the changes in his behaviour. That was our manager Lucille. About five weeks ago, she offhandedly asked me if I knew of any “alteration” in Benoît’s personal or home life. He had, so she told me, been significantly more cordial with her over the previous few days. He had been smiling, laughing, generally not acting like himself. I told her I didn’t know and hadn’t noticed, but the next shift I saw what she meant. It was as though a different man were wearing the skin of Benoît, a man who had always known the deep joys of life.

I watched this new person go about their happy life for almost an entire night before I finally decided that I simply had to ask him what had happened. At first he appeared puzzled by my question, but when I told him how much happier he seemed, his smile grew wide. He leaned in close to me and looked around playfully, as if pretending to check for eavesdroppers. “A woman,” he said at last, “François, I am in love. And she loves me!” And then, without warning he grabbed me with both arms and pulled me into a short embrace, which I was simply too stunned to resist.

Up close, I could not help but notice the faintest of odours from his skin. It was a damp smell, like decaying wood, and it wasn’t until I had a chance to shower and change my clothes after work that I finally managed to rid myself of it completely. It was not a pleasant smell, certainly, but it was not awful. What bothered me was its presence at all. I knew Benoît to be a clean, almost fastidious man, prone to wearing slightly too much cologne. This was new, and beyond that there was… something to the smell itself, some memory of a childhood spent in the country around Lyon, of wandering out in the damp heat after a summer rain, of turning over logs slick with moisture, to reveal the crawling underbelly beneath them. But for the most part I ignored it. After all, if I could remain unconcerned about Benoît when he was miserable, doing so when he was happy hardly seemed like a challenge.

And indeed, he continued to be happy, almost to the point of bliss, for almost the entire month following. The smell was growing ever so gradually stronger, to the point where I would occasionally see my colleagues wrinkle their noses when he went to talk to them, but it never quite reached the stage where it felt worth bringing up with Lucille. Benoît’s hygiene more generally also started to noticeably decline. At first, his shirts would be wrinkled when he arrived for work, when before I had only ever seen him wear them crisply ironed. Then there were small stains or tears that could be spotted, as his clothes seemed to be washed less and less regularly. Again, none of this was glaringly obvious, and if his behaviour hadn’t drawn my attention, it’s likely I never would have noticed it at all. Certainly none of the patrons of Le Papillon Blanc ever seemed bothered by his appearance or cleanliness.

Through all of it, he would talk incessantly to anyone who would listen about this woman who had apparently changed his life, “mon petit scarabée”, his little beetle. I was never able to get her actual name from Benoît, as he only seemed to refer to her by that weird nickname. Clear details were also difficult to establish: he could talk for an hour over what his little beetle had told him over breakfast, but when asked about what she did, where she was from, what she looked like, he would always find a way to talk around it and shift the conversation in a new direction. We managed to establish that she had children, as Benoît would often make reference to “the little ones”, his eyes lighting up with parental pride. They couldn’t have been his, obviously, but that didn’t seem to matter to him. But, as with their mother, solid details about these children were almost impossible to establish. I would have suspected this new family of his wasn’t even real, were it not for the fact that he was clearly not faking his joy or contentment. Either his “petit scarabée” was real, or Benoît was suffering from a very complex delusion indeed. It never occurred to me it might have been both.

It was… two days ago that it happened. I was thinking earlier how unlikely it was, to have been looking so precisely at such a specific spot at such a specific time as to make me absolutely sure of what I witnessed. If I had glanced over a second later or only caught it from the corner of my eye, I could easily have dismissed it. After all, the simple presence of insects is not, in and of itself, remarkable. It was the where this particular insect came from, however, that shook me so deeply. Benoît was leaning over the bar, listening to a young man who, I believe, was ordering for quite a large group. As this customer listed off his drinks, Benoît’s hand rested lightly upon the countertop, and I found, for no reason I could readily provide, my gaze was resting upon the fingers of his hand.

Without any warning, or reaction from Benoît himself, there seemed to be movement from the ring finger of his right hand. A slight shudder, a shifting of the skin beneath his fingernail. A small patch of darkness seemed to grow just below it, expanding until it resolved itself into the shape of an insect. It pushed itself smoothly and quickly out from below his fingernail and dropped down onto the bar, scuttling away and out of sight so quickly I lost it almost immediately. It had all happened in a matter of moments, and there was no blood, no reaction from Benoît, no evidence that it had truly happened at all, apart from my shaking legs and the feeling I was going to collapse. And it was in that state that your associate found me.

At the time I thought he was your son. His French was significantly better than yours, and it took some time and some difficulty translating before I could fully explain to you what had happened. You rebuffed all my questions about your interest in Benoît and his situation, as you resolutely have since. I am… telling you my story, since you have asked so nicely, but I will never truly forgive either of you for what you have shown me. I should have been more suspicious of this man, too old for his poorly dyed hair, leading me to an old woman who promised me answers in exchange for an address. I should have walked away. I shouldn’t have offered to go with you. But I was in shock from what I had seen, and I believe you could have told me to do almost anything, and I would have been unlikely to argue. You tried to cross-examine me about things I didn’t understand: “Étranger ou la saleté?” I honestly had no idea what you were talking about, but I didn’t put up a fight when you told me to get Benoît’s address. I don’t know why you agreed when I asked to come with you. I wish you hadn’t.

Do you really need me to describe it? You saw it for yourselves. The flowing tide that swarmed and scuttled as soon as the door opened. The smell that rolled out of that apartment like a choking wall. The thing that embraced Benoît. Mon petit scarabée. The only thing I don’t know is if you saw in as much detail as I did the look of sheer contentment and joy on poor Benoît’s face as his family crawled all over him. I don’t care about what the police might have done; your young colleague was right. You should have burned the place to the ground. I have nothing more to say to you.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Th - [Sighs]

This is, um…

[PAPER RUSTLING]
This is written in French. A-All of it.

I don’t… I don’t speak French. I-I don’t read… I’ve never…

[Sigh] I wish I could find it in myself to be surprised.

[MORE PAPER RUSTLING]
Er, statement, it seems, given directly to Gertrude. Though not apparently recorded. Did she perhaps leave her tape recorder at home when she took this little ‘field trip’ with Gerard? June 2014. Barely a year before her murder, and less than half that before Gerard Keay’s brain tumour would lead to his own death. Did he know already? That his life was ending? Was he trying to accomplish one last good deed before the end? Were they both?

“Étranger ou la saleté?” Foreigner or dirt. Stranger or Filth. I can see why with limited information Mr. Deschamps’ account could lend itself to either interpretation: sudden appearance of a vague and previously unknown figure inserting itself into someone’s life on the one hand, and on the other… bugs and bad smells. Let it never be said the Hive and its ilk are subtle. Still, closer examination points pretty conclusively in that direction. It must have been a disappointment, especially if, as I suspect, Gertrude and Gerard were searching for information on the Unknowing.

Basira did some cursory follow-up on the statement itself. Benoît Maçon definitely died in late June 2014, but the Toulouse police records regarding the matter are firmly sealed. François Deschamps has refused our request for a follow-up interview. He did forward us one item, however. [Snorts] I can’t read the French on this one, but it appears to be a crudely printed wedding invitation. Benoît Maçon is the only name legible on it, as most of the details are obscured by a wide variety of dried stains.

Most helpful of all, though, is the simple fact that Gertrude was in Toulouse in June 2014. The information I found from her laptop doesn’t give a complete picture of her travels, but now I know when to look, and it appears that when she left Toulouse she did not return to London. Instead, it looks like she took several connecting flights, eventually ending up in Wellington International Airport in New Zealand. I can’t find any other details on the computer, but I’m going to ask the others to see if they can hunt down any statements referencing New Zealand in or around mid-2014. It might be a wild goose chase, but it’s the best lead I have.

In the meantime I… I have a new flat. I should try to get comfortable, change the locks. Even if I might need to be leaving it for a while. Oh, and… I suppose I… I did tell Georgie I’d try to talk to Martin.

[DEEP SIGH]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure you don’t mind?

MARTIN
No, no, no, it’s fine, I’ve… I’ve kind of stop noticing if I’m honest. They just sort of… turn themselves on these days.

…

Look I’m, I’m so sorry, John, I - Elias didn’t even tell any of us that you’d been kidnapped. I didn’t know - No-one else was telling me - And there wasn’t any -

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Hey.

Hey, hey, hey… It’s alright, it’s alright. Elias didn’t tell anyone, there was, there was no way you could have known. I-I mean, I wasn’t exactly here before.

MARTIN
No, you weren’t.

…

But I’m sure that if you could have been, you would have.

…

Are you alright? They didn’t hurt you?

ARCHIVIST
No. No, no, I’m… I’m okay. Just - I mean my skin’s in better condition than… ever.

Is that a weird thing to say?

MARTIN
A bit?

ARCHIVIST
It was basically all she talked about. Orsinov. I-It was- How’s everyone been?

MARTIN
Oh, well, we’ve, we’ve been fine. I mean… Well, not great. Tim’s still… not doing well. Melanie seems okay, but I get the feeling she’s… I don’t know, planning something?

ARCHIVIST
I - I got that feeling too.

MARTIN
Basira’s the only one doing - well, she seems weirdly calm about the whole thing. Like it’s… like she’s on a vacation or something.

ARCHIVIST
Maybe she just suits the academic life. What about Daisy?

MARTIN
Don’t see her much. Which is fine by me.

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]
ARCHIVIST
Does the rest of the Institute know what’s going on down here? I mean, I never really paid attention, but…

MARTIN
N-Not really? I think? I mean, Tim’s been going on about it to anyone who listens, but I think they just… think he’s had a bit of a breakdown.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I mean…

MARTIN
I mean, they can quit.

Hannah just left to have her baby, though.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know who that is.

MARTIN
Yeah you do - Hannah? She works in the library. Black, kind of stocky. Had that whole thing with the milk in the break room last year?

ARCHIVIST
I, er… Sorry. I really don’t…

MARTIN
Well, anyway, I… Well, I think they all just see the Archives as kind of weird and leave us to it. Y’know? Better us than them.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, they’re not wrong.

[MORE UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]
MARTIN
So… are you coming back or…?

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I-I don’t know. Probably not yet. There’s a lot of… I-I think I might be on a bit of a treasure hunt.

MARTIN
Oh?

ARCHIVIST
Treasure in the sense of the… the world not ending.

MARTIN
Oh.

ARCHIVIST
I will keep in touch. I’m, I’m going to need all of you digging into stuff.

E-Elias mentioned… he said you’d been… reading statements?

MARTIN
Oh… uh… yeah.

Um… He thought it might help.

ARCHIVIST
Right. I-I-I mean, they’re not… They haven’t…

You’ve been okay?

MARTIN
B-B… Yeah. I mean, i-it wasn’t fun, but… I mean, if it, if it helps then I -

ARCHIVIST
Okay. If you’re sure, just… Make sure the others help you, alright? Statements can be… If you’re not used to them it can… be a bit weird.

MARTIN
Er… Sure.

ARCHIVIST
An-Anyway, I-I-I should go. I-I’ve got a few leads to follow up.

MARTIN
Right, right.

ARCHIVIST
I’m, I’m sorry, Martin. We haven’t… I know we haven’t talked much since… Sasha and everything.

MARTIN
Well, I mean it’s not too late, y’know. Unless the world ends.

[MARTIN LAUGHS NERVOUSLY]
ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Dylan Anderson, regarding an unusual pig he acquired on his farm near the Marlborough Forest, New Zealand. Original statement given July 2nd, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Pigs are tricky. They are very intelligent animals. But I’ve found I can never completely bring myself to trust them. They can be your best friend, then tackle your legs from behind if they’re feeling mean. And when a pig hits you, you know you’ve been hit. It doesn’t help matters that I am acutely aware that a pig would be more than happy to eat me if the opportunity came up. They’re true omnivores, and they wouldn’t necessarily even do me the courtesy of waiting until I was dead. I’ve heard more than one grisly story of a farmer passing out drunk in a pigpen, and in the morning there’s only bones. I had my cousin, Melinda, visiting a few years back with her son, and I told her to make sure and keep the baby away from the pigs. I still remember the dawning look of horror on her face when I told her why, like she couldn’t believe that a pig would just… eat a baby. But most pigs would. Most pigs will eat just about anything that doesn’t stop them.

I feel I may be doing pigs a disservice here, to be honest. When I say a pig can be your best friend, I’m not exaggerating. They can be tremendously affectionate creatures, and I’ve known more than one pig that I’d put in the running against any of my human friends. But it’s hard to get past the idea that if my human friends would draw a cock and balls on my face when I’m sleeping off the drink, my pig friends might just… eat me. They probably wouldn’t. ‘Cause we’re friends. But they might.

It’s not even like I run a proper pig farm, I just keep a few at a time, since they’re quite handy to have about. A couple of pigs are a great way to dispose of waste, and their manure is great for composting. And, I can’t deny, when it’s their time, they are… quite tasty. And I do sell the meat, though I take a lot of pains to make sure people know it was raised cruelty free. I take care of them. The point is, I certainly have never had so many pigs that I would lose track. And I know I never bought or birthed the monster pig.

When I first called it that, it was just because it was huge. I never got a chance to properly weigh it, but it must have come in at around three or four hundred kilos. I don’t know if you know about pigs, but that’s big. Bigger than big. It’s a monster pig. I didn’t find out about the rest until… well, I didn’t know.

I don’t know when it came from. I didn’t buy it. I didn’t take delivery of it, and as far as I can tell, no-one else did either. It’s a bit hard to tell as this was back in March, so the Merlot harvest season was well underway. As you’ve seen, while I do have a few pigs, this is a vineyard. We supply grapes to a lot of the bigger winemakers around here, and I’d been toying with the idea of starting my own label but haven’t really done anything with it yet. Oh, uh, when you’re writing this up, make it’s clear that we’re near the Marlborough Forest, but that’s not the same thing as the Marlborough region, which is famous for wine. That’s on the South Island. I just don’t want there to be any confusion.

Where was I? Yeah, it was the height of the Merlot harvest, so most of us, myself included, were out in the vineyard for pretty much the whole day. I hadn’t checked on the pigs in a while, but the next time I headed into the sty… there it was, sat in the corner, just encompassing the corner, its bulk filling the place out as the other, smaller pigs, tried to find somewhere to be that wasn’t next to it. It just sat there, and stared at me. I didn’t like staring back at it. It made me feel strange, like it was sorting me into cuts of meat. There was more in those eyes than I’d ever seen in another pig; hidden among the rolls of pink flesh, they had malice in them. The pig wanted to hurt me. I’m sure of that.

I-I didn’t know what to do. I just - I asked around to see if anyone knew where it had come from, but no-one had any idea. They were just as baffled as I was. Though they could see it, which was, you know, a relief.

Or not, since it being real meant it had to be fed. Part of me did consider immediately trying to send it for slaughter, but… but something about the way it looked at me, almost daring me to try it, a thin trickle of pink saliva glistening around its mouth. I’m absolutely sure if I’d asked Manawa, or any of the others, to bring it out for that, they would be dead. In fact, the more I think about the whole situation, the more certain I am that the monster pig wanted nothing more than to kill and eat me. It just didn’t want the hassle of breaking out of the sty. Though I’m sure it could have if it really wanted to.

I tried to feed it, but it was so huge, it ate so much, and there wasn’t enough for all the others as well. It wouldn’t need to be violent. It would just shift its mass towards the trough, and the other pigs would just be moved aside. When it ate, I got a closer look at that mottled body. It was covered in small lumps and marks that at first I thought might have been ticks or some other sort of parasite. But as I got closer, I saw that they were scars. Shot scars, most of them, with some that looked like they might have been from spikes or axes. One of them… looked like finger marks. As I stared at it, still stood in the pen, my eyes darted again to the gate and the lock that was now looking far too flimsy. It could just leave and-and attack; there was nothing I could do to stop it. I just watched it eat all the food.

Not enough food, apparently, since after a few days of this, it decided to supplement its diet with poor Toby. I’d looked after Toby since he was born. I’d helped birth him. He was my friend. So when I saw what was left of him lying in the pigpen on that damp Tuesday morning, I’m not ashamed to say that I cried. He was the first of my pigs to go, but I was sure he wouldn’t be the last. I tried to get the other pigs out a couple of times, move them to another pen, but the monster would start to shift its weight towards me with alarming speed, and I would always run away like a coward. The only time I seemed to be safe was when I was bringing food.

This went on for months. My brother, Kurt, came for a visit at one point. He said he planned to stay a couple of weeks, but the very first night I was woken up by the sound of movement outside of the farmhouse. I grabbed a torch, popped on my boots, and headed outside. I didn’t even consider not checking the pig sty first. Sure enough, as I got close, I heard something, though it wasn’t entirely clear what it was. It wasn’t the sound of a colossal pig eating my brother though, so that was encouraging. It was him, though, stood there, staring into the darkness. He was muttering something to himself. I think the words were, “Long pig. Short pig. Wide pig. Narrow pig.” Over and over. “Long pig. Short pig. Wide pig. Narrow pig.” He didn’t seem to be entirely conscious, so I was reluctant to wake him. I didn’t think it was a nice situation to become aware of all of a sudden. That said, when he reached over and started fumbling with the latch, I quickly changed my mind, and shook him awake. His eyes snapped open properly and immediately focused on something behind me, in the sty. I didn’t need to look around or ask him what he was looking at. His pale, stricken face told me plain enough what it was.

To his credit, he managed to stay another three days before he had to return to London on a ‘business emergency’. For context, I’m pretty sure he works as a traffic warden. And still the pig just sat there. Waiting.

I believe it was the circus that got your attention though, wasn’t it? That’s what you were asking about when you turned up. So, the Carley Brothers Circus mostly tours around Australia, but every couple of years they do a New Zealand tour as well. They do a few other spots around the Pacific, but the important point for this story is that this is one of the years they’re doing New Zealand. Now, generally they need anywhere between a couple of weeks and a month of moving things over, setting up, and getting all the right permissions and arrangements in place before the tour begins in earnest. I went to school with the brother of the guy who runs it, so the last couple of years they’ve done this, I rented out one of my larger, unused fields to them for their staging area. It’s pretty easy money, and they don’t need to use my facilities, and tend to be almost entirely self-contained. The first year they did it there was a lot trash left behind we had had to clean up, but apparently someone bashed the right heads about it, since last year there was barely a cigarette stub left.

So the arrangements are all made, and the Carley Brothers Circus moves onto one of my fields for a month. I get drunk with the ringmaster and a couple of acrobats. So far, so normal. I almost forgot about the monster that lived in my pigpen. Almost.

A few weeks passed without anything happening. Then one of the clowns disappeared. A man named Angus Dale. He’s been a member of the circus for almost ten years now. No drink or drug problems, and no issues with his personal life, nowhere particular else to go. Exactly no reason to up and vanish from his job without telling anyone where he’s going. They started a search of the Marlborough Forest, they informed local police, they started discussing the best ways to publicise the disappearance.

I’m sure you can guess where this is going. Through it all there was this dark little suspicion growing in my mind. I never saw any evidence for it, not really. Nothing that would stand up in court, but even so, the suspicion grew into a theory, which grew into a certainty. That pig, that monster still squatted in my sty. The lock hadn’t been damaged or left open, so it was hard to see how it could have gotten out to attack a clown, or even how Angus might have gotten in. But I know he did. I know that thing killed and ate him.

I keep having this dream. I used to watch the rehearsals for the Carley Brothers’ performances, and I can clearly remember Angus Dale’s voice, or at least his clowning voice. I was watching him perform, but instead of a comedy skit or a bit of slapstick, he would sink his teeth into his limbs with this crunching, cracking sound, gradually eating himself. But even with a mouth full of meat, his laugh was still clear as a bell, his jokes and pleas for mercy clearly articulated. He never gave any sign he was in pain, but every few seconds he would stop laughing or chewing, and just repeat the words, “Long pig. Short pig. Wide pig. Narrow pig,” before starting up again. When I finally managed to drag myself out of bed the next morning, there was a bright, white, human femur on the ground in the pig sty, lying in front of the enormous fleshy form that just gazed at me in horrid triumph.

I didn’t want to tell anyone. That would have brought investigation, the police, efforts to exterminate the man-eating thing that looked so much like a pig. It wouldn’t go how they expected, I was sure of that, and I didn’t know what to do. Would it kill more people if I just left it alone, or if they tried to kill it? I never had much call for ethics before really, it was just… grapes and pigs. And when faced with that choice, I found myself completely paralysed.

After about ten minutes standing there in silence, staring at that bone, I walked into the pen, and I lay down motionless in front of the monster pig. Thinking now, that decision seems alien to me, but I think I just couldn’t stand the thought of going any further in the story that was playing out in front of me. It smelt awful on the floor, and as the pink form began to move towards me, my resolve started to waver. It was far too heavy to be supported by its skinny, twig-like legs, but something still propelled it slowly forward, inch by inch, that familiar pink drool leaving a thin path for the enormous body to follow, until it was right on top of me.

I closed my eyes and gritted my teeth, waiting to feel the pain of it starting to tear into my flesh. But instead, I felt it settle next to me, the meat of it sinking into the spaces left by my position. It was pressing up against me, and let out the most contented sound I have ever heard from a pig. The message could not have been clearer: ‘Friend’.

I don’t know how long I lay there in that stinking pig sty, listening to the calm, relaxed breathing of the murderous thing that had chosen to spare me. Eventually it retreated to its corner, and I stood and walked back into the house.

If you hadn’t turned up that evening, I don’t know what I’d have done. I know a monster pig wasn’t what you were looking for, but I do appreciate your advice. When you explained the situation, I hoped you’d have some special trick for dealing with it, but I suppose welding scrap metal around the pen and filling it with cement just about works, even if I do owe Mason a favour for borrowing his mixer. I’d have thought the thing would at least try to break free while I did it, but… thank heaven for small mercies, I suppose.

A huge block of solid concrete. What ought to do with it? Some sort of engraving, maybe? “In memory of Toby”? I can’t very well put it up “In memory of Angus”. That’s what really gets me, to be honest. Those pigs didn’t deserve what that thing did to them. Tearing them apart and eating them. Neither did Angus, of course.

The circus is still around if you want to talk to them, but the search for Angus Dale is still going on, so I’d appreciate it if you didn’t bring my name up. Oh, and if you’re hungry, I’ve got some bacon in the freezer I’m going to cook up.

What?

Statement ends.

ARCHIVIST
Another dead end for Gertrude, it seems. Assuming it was Gertrude Mr. Anderson was talking to, but I feel that’s a safe assumption as the tickets to Wellington were only for one. Perhaps Gerard joined her later? I can only imagine her frustration upon chasing down a mysterious disappearance with a circus connection, only to find herself instead trying to help contain an evil pig. Too much meat.

The disappearance of Angus Dale is still an open case though, no leads have been found since a possible reported sighting in 2016 that didn’t amount to anything. Martin attempted to make contact with Mr. Anderson himself, but after a few unanswered emails and calls ringing out, I think we can safely abandon that hope.

There is one loose end I’m hoping might amount to something though. Mr. Anderson mentioned his brother, Kurt, emigrated to the UK, and works as a traffic warden. At least, as of 2014. Melanie’s seeing if she can hunt him down. If he’s still around, there’s a possibility he might be able to fill in a few of the… missing pieces. I currently have nothing to indicate where Gertrude might have travelled next, but I… I have a hunch Kurt Anderson might be able to help.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[BUSY STREET NOISES]
ARCHIVIST
Er, excuse me, are you Kurt Anderson?

KURT
Yeah, why?

ARCHIVIST
Dylan Anderson is your… is your brother?

KURT
Yeah… Why is he in some kind of trouble?

ARCHIVIST
Oh no, I-I-I want to… I just have a couple of questions.

KURT
Look buddy, I’m not sure about-

ARCHIVIST
It’s about a pig he owned back in 2014.

KURT
Woah. No, I don’t know anything about that.

ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s kind of a weird one - No, look, I know we haven’t met…

KURT
[Insistent] I don’t know what you’re talking about.

ARCHIVIST
[Sighs] Fine…

What do you know about the pig?

KURT
I only met it once, and it freaked me right out. I haven’t been back since. But Dylan says he managed to get rid of it.

ARCHIVIST
Did he mention an old woman who helped him?

KURT
Yeah, but he didn’t say how. Told me some weird guy turned up afterwards, and she went off with him in a real hurry. Left heaps of stuff behind and all.

ARCHIVIST
Er, w-w-what, what stuff did she leave behind?

KURT
I don’t know, papers, letters, a couple of old plane tickets. Now listen, dude …

ARCHIVIST
No, no, did he say what he did with them?

KURT
He sent them to me, asked me to get them back to her.

ARCHIVIST
A-And did you?

KURT
No, couldn’t be bothered. Then I forgot. I’ve still got them somewhere, I think.

ARCHIVIST
I, um, I, I work with her. Could I … could I collect them?

KURT
No! I don’t know even know you! Just get away, dude.

Weirdo. Leave me alone.

ARCHIVIST
B-B-B-But those papers are very important.

KURT
Get away from me.

ARCHIVIST
Fine, fine, just…

What’s your darkest secret?

KURT
I don’t know. Er, sometimes I take little bribes, and not give people a ticket.

[Realises] Oh, what the hell?

ARCHIVIST
Right, okay, I imagine Lambeth Borough Council would be very interested to know that, and I have it on tape. So… let’s go get those papers, shall we?

KURT
[Afraid] What are you?!

ARCHIVIST
Let’s go.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[TUNNEL SOUNDS; VOICES ECHO]
ARCHIVIST
Thank you for coming.

DAISY
Sure. Why down here?

ARCHIVIST
I, um, E-Elias, I-I think… I think he has a hard time seeing things down here.

DAISY
I.e. he’s not watching?

ARCHIVIST
Maybe? I’m, I’m pretty sure it takes him actual effort, so… and it’s Wednesday afternoon, when he does his scheduling. So I’m hoping he’s distracted.

…

He, er… he loves scheduling.

DAISY
Right.

So, if he’s not paying attention, and I kill you down here…

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I wouldn’t… I wouldn’t risk it.

DAISY
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
Look, I’m… I’m going away for a while. The, the things I’m, I’m looking for they’re… they’re not in England, not in the UK, I don’t think. So I… I just wanted to, to ask, make sure you were going to look after the others.

DAISY
That’s my job. Now. Apparently.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I I don’t just mean Basira. E-Elias…

DAISY
I’ll keep an eye on them. That all?

ARCHIVIST
No. No. I was, I was… I was thinking. This… Section 31 unit that, that you’re a part of -

DAISY
[Insistent] Not a unit! Just paperwork.

ARCHIVIST
Right but, but… what do they think about Elias?

DAISY
Best avoided. Pretty harmless. Um, crimes involving the Institute get people sectioned, but he’s not an active threat.

ARCHIVIST
If we had evidence that he was an active threat, that he was killing people, he, he was the one threatening to make all of your stuff public, do you think they’d move against him?

DAISY
…

Maybe.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, he’s got knowledge, but I-I don’t know how much that would help in - What?

DAISY
You sure you want to talk with that thing running?

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Um, I-I… I didn’t … didn’t realise I’d turned it on.

DAISY
Huh. We don’t know how he’s watching. No evidence.

ARCHIVIST
R-Right.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[CALMING BREATH]
MARTIN
Statement of Eduardo Acosta, regarding the night of October 9th -

[SUDDEN CRASH OF TUMBLING BOXES AND MARTIN EMITS A LITTLE SHRIEK]
TIM
[Unapologetically] Sorry.

[SOUNDS OF BOXES & FILES BEING MOVED AROUND DURING THE CONVERSATION]
MARTIN
Oh Christ, Tim! Oh, I… huh, oh, oh God, it’s alright, it’s just a shock. I didn’t realise you were…

TIM
[Dourly] I’ve been moving boxes in here for a while.

MARTIN
You… have you?

TIM
Yeah. Everything alright?

MARTIN
Yeah, I guess. I kind of… zone out a bit when I have to read a statement.

TIM
Right.

…

Well, see ya.

MARTIN
Oh no, Tim! Uh, Tim!

TIM
Hmm?

MARTIN
Uh, while I’ve got you, there’s a book I was after for, uh… well, it was, uh, uh, The Marvellous Spiritualism and the Circus in the 19th Century? I asked up in the Library, but Tom said you had it checked out?

TIM
Yeah. Why?

MARTIN
Oh, you know, just looking into anything and everything that might pin down The Unknowing.

TIM
The what?

MARTIN
[Cautiously] The Unknowing?

TIM
Well, am I supposed to know what that is or, or what?

MARTIN
You don’t -

Ah, ummm, heh heh, I just thought someone would have told you by now.

TIM
Well, they haven’t.

[Pointedly] What are you talking about?

MARTIN
I mean, I’m not… sure -

TIM
Martin! What is The Unknowing? And what does it have to do with the Circus?

MARTIN
It’s… it’s uh, uh, a ritual. I don’t know the… it’s, it’s bad. Like, like really bad. Like, maybe ‘end of the world’ bad. And the Circus is doing it, the, the, the Russian ones, the, uh, Circus of the Other.

TIM
[High-strung giggling] No, no, no, no, no. No, we haven’t - There hasn’t been a Circus statement since Leanne Denikin’s last year, and that was a dead end! There’s… someone would have told me.

MARTIN
Tim, you’ve been out of it for a while.

TIM
[Not entirely stable] Someone should have told me!

MARTIN
Why?

[DEEP BREATHS FROM TIM]
Tim, are you alright?

TIM
Turn it off.

MARTIN
What?

TIM
[Shouting] Turn it o -

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Please, Tim.

TIM
No.

MARTIN
He needs to hear it.

TIM
I don’t care.

MARTIN
He can’t help if he doesn’t know.

TIM
I don’t want his help, Martin.

MARTIN
Elias seems to think that he’s the best chance that we have to stop them.

TIM
And what? I’m supposed to just trust Elias now?

MARTIN
Please.

TIM
[Exhales] Fine. Fine. I’ll tell him in person, when he gets back from… wherever it is that he’s vanished to.

MARTIN
China. And if you try to tell him in person, you’ll just end up at each other’s throats. You know you will.

TIM
…

[Bitterly] Statement of Timothy Stoker, on the disappearance of… of my brother, Danny, four years ago. June 14th, 2017.

MARTIN
Thank you.

TIM
Statement begins.

TIM (STATEMENT)
My little brother Danny, he was always better than me. He was a couple of years younger, but by the time he hit 21 he was already taller, fitter, better looking. I mean, he didn’t have my winning sense of humour, but he didn’t need it. Charisma, it wasn’t a problem for him. I think a lot of people in my situation would have been… jealous, but not me. I was just proud of him. He was always doing some, some charity race or endurance course, getting modelling gigs, while I worked quietly away in publishing. And it made me smile.

I remember, he actually got a job doing some publicity shots for the company that owned my local gym. There was a good five months where, whenever I walked down to my offices, there he’d be, twice as large as life, smiling down from a poster, and challenging me to take them up on their joining fee, or lack thereof. I never did, but it always brought a smile to my face when I saw it.

We didn’t really talk much, me and Danny. We were still pretty close, and he’d usually keep me updated on whatever his latest obsession was. He tended to throw himself into a thing completely for about six months, and well, then he’d get bored, and something new would catch his eye. Like, um, back in 2013, it was urban exploration. He’d come down to London, stay with me for a couple of day’s and we’d end up having drinks with, er, Abigail Ellison, who’s a mutual friend of ours from back home.

Abi had been doing the urban exploration thing on and off for a few years, and was telling us a few of her ‘close calls’ in some of the sites down near the old Docklands. As she talked, I was just watching Danny’s eyes light up, and I knew exactly what was happening. His passion for sailing was starting to wane after almost a year, and I was sure I was watching him discover his next project. When Abi mentioned she had a trip lined up for the old Millennium Mills in Newham, well, it was pretty much a done deal. At the time I quite liked the idea. It wasn’t the weirdest thing to ever catch Danny’s attention, not by a long shot, and secretly I thought he and Abigail would maybe make kind of a cute couple, so I was quite encouraging. Not that he needed it.

It’s weird, isn’t it, the things that can change your life? You can plan for all the devastating, terrible possibilities you can imagine, and it’ll always be those tiny, unexpected things that get you. You know, the things that you never even noticed as they were happening, just… just nudging everything into motion. But even if there was a way I could have known, I really don’t think I’d be able to have stopped him.

So, for the next few months that was it. My cool little brother was an urban explorer. It suited him, and I got used to my phone buzzing at my office desk as he filled it with pictures of his smiling face in front of some, I don’t know, rusted machine or hidden tunnel. He never did get together with Abi, but it only took a couple of trips with her, and he’d learned what he needed. He talked a few of his friends into it, like always, started going on trips further afield. I thought he’d be down in London more than he was, but it turns out there are even more interesting abandoned places up north, and they tend to be less guarded than they are down here, so that was where he spent most of his time.

There was one thing that did draw him down to London though, what he referred to as “ghost buildings”. There might have been some official name in the urban exploration community, I don’t know; he stopped using the jargon around me after I joked that ‘urbex’ sounded like a brand of drain cleaner. What he was talking about was the places where newer buildings had been constructed in or, I don’t know, over the remains of an earlier one, but development had left some of the old pieces intact. Sometimes, it was just a wall or two, made out of a different material, but occasionally there’d be an entire hidden basement or bricked up room. I don’t know why, but Danny loved them. He’d talk for hours about “crumbling pieces of history desperately clinging onto existence”, but to be honest I never really got it. I guess I didn’t have to. Anyway, according to him, London had more of these ‘ghost buildings’ than anywhere else in the country.

He’d been exploring for a few months when he first mentioned Covent Garden Theatre. It had been destroyed by fire twice since it was first built in 1732, and well, he was convinced that the current building stood on top of floors and floors of hidden and abandoned ruins, “the discarded cocoons of its previous life” as he once put it. He showed me maps and measurements, a few photo sets from others who’d apparently been there before. I never asked him to, but well, when he was excited, he just wanted everyone else to share it. That was… that was Danny. He was just… like that. While he was talking about the second Theatre Royal in Covent Garden, the one that lasted less than fifty years before it burned down, that was when I first heard the name Robert Smirke.

All through this, I was trying to talk him out of going because, well, what had once been the Covent Garden Theatre is nowadays known as the Royal Opera House, which is about as far from an abandoned building as you can get. And I really didn’t think that trespassing there would be a good idea. But Danny didn’t want to hear it. He wasn’t going into the main building, he told me, and had figured out a route he claimed would lead him into the abandoned levels below without crossing anywhere that might actually attract security. And he was going alone, so he didn’t need to worry about attracting too much attention. I told him it was a bad idea, but I’d never been able to stand in the way of his confidence. So late on Wednesday night in August 2013, my little brother went to break into the ruins hidden under the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden. It sounds so ridiculous to say it out loud, but there it is.

I don’t know how long he was gone. I went to bed around one in the morning, and he hadn’t gotten back. It was a hot night, and I woke up a few hours later needing a glass of water. There were the first hints of dawn filtering in through my living room windows, giving it this quiet, otherworldly feeling. Danny was sat in my big armchair, completely still. I smiled, feeling suddenly a little bit unsettled, and trying my best to hide it. I’d asked how it had been, but he didn’t answer. I asked him if he’d found anything, and he nodded slowly. I saw as he tilted his head that his cheeks were just wet with tears. He mumbled something then, very quietly, and I couldn’t really make it out, but it sounded like the name ‘Joey’.

It was all kind of surreal, strange, and I started to think I might be dreaming, but I’d never seen him cry before. I tried to talk to him, find out what was wrong, but he just kept shaking his head. We sat there in silence for a long time. I didn’t know what to do; the whole situation was so alien. I thought maybe I could try and get him some rest, let him collect himself, so after some coaxing, I got him onto the couch. As he laid down, I heard him say something else. I thought it sounded like “the show must go on”, and at that moment, you know, I actually thought that was a good sign. I watched for a few more minutes until he was asleep, and then I went back to bed, though it was a while before I fell back to sleep.

That night was the last time I ever saw Danny. When I woke up a few hours later, he was gone. He left no note, no hint of where he may have gone, and the only thing that showed he’d been back at all were a small pile of sketches he’d drawn on some scrap paper from my printer. On each there was a clown, the same clown. A shock of dark hair, vertical on the top of his head, porcelain white face, bright red lips painted in a wide, pointed smile, and a crimson diamond running down each cheek from just below his eyes. The lips may have been smiling, but the mouth my brother had drawn was dark, an empty circle that made me feel cold.

I should have called the police. Well, maybe not, now I’ve met some of the ones who’ve dealt with these cases. But I shouldn’t have followed him. I shouldn’t have checked the notes Danny left about where to get in, and what to watch out for en route. There was never really any hope for me, though, was there? This was how it was always going to go.

Danny’s notes were very comprehensive, and finding the entrance to the old, disused part under the Royal Opera House wasn’t nearly as difficult as I thought it might be. He hadn’t reattached the chain he’d broken to get in, and it didn’t look like anyone had noticed to replace it. The entrance stood open, and even though it was the middle of the day, it became almost completely dark as soon as it crossed the threshold. I think he must have done some work on the hinges too, because even though I could see the rust eating through them, the door opened in complete silence. I stepped inside.

Back then I didn’t know enough about Robert Smirke’s architecture to recognise his work; I just thought it was a really well-preserved sub-level. The corridors were wide and solid, and my torch showed columns that were that regular geometry that I’ve come to recognise. Compared to the summer heat outside, the air was cold. I found myself shivering in just my T-shirt and shorts. The whole place looked spotless, a lot cleaner than any pictures I’ve ever seen of urban exploration or abandoned sites. I couldn’t really see why the Royal Opera House above wouldn’t use this space, why they’d just let it sit here untouched and hidden behind a locked and unmarked steel door just off of James Street. I was still wondering about this when I walked into the auditorium.

At the time I wasn’t exactly sure what I was looking at, but I’ve now seen pictures of the second Theatre Royal in Covent Garden, the one designed by Smirke, and I can say it was identical. A perfect recreation of the old stage and tiered seats, the decorations and the boxes. There were only two differences: that it was almost twenty feet below the ground where the original stage was, and that everything, from the floor, to the seats, to the blank and faceless audience was entirely hewn out of crude stone. There was no light except for the headlamp I had taken from my brother’s pack, and it swept over a full house, four levels of unmoving stone watchers, two thumb-sized indentations focused towards the stage. There was nothing that indicated they were any newer than the rest of the place.

I walked down the steps to the edge of the top level, where I’d entered, and I looked down towards the stage. My lamp barely illuminated the single figure that stood on it. [Deep exhalation] It was Danny. At least, I, I think it was. It looked like him; the same hair, the same clothes, but there was something not right about how he looked. Like he was smaller, somehow, slightly folded in on himself. It didn’t matter; I shouted down to him, to let him know I was there. He didn’t look up, but when my voice echoed around the stone theatre, I knew I’d made a horrible mistake.

From somewhere above me, a spotlight suddenly turned on, shining down onto the stage, painfully bright against the white stone. The air became uncomfortably hot, and there was some sort of music. The spotlight wasn’t on Danny. Instead, it picked out a figure crouched in the corner. All ruffles, and polka dots, and tights. A clown. It crouched and contorted in the corner, hands backwards over its face, but not so much that I couldn’t see the dark red patterns that seemed to flow down its eyes. I couldn’t move.

Slowly, so slowly, its right arm reached out towards Danny. It placed its hand on the floor with a long, low groan, then pulled itself along the floor, the fabric of its colourful dress scraping the rough stone of the stage, and its cheek rubbing against the ground, leaving a trail of red behind it. Then it was still for a second, before a leg reached out in front, and it began to drag the rest of the clown behind it.

I always tell myself there was some force there. Something that held me in place and meant that all I could do was watch. But sometimes when I think back, I remember how my legs shook, and maybe I could move. Maybe I’m just a coward.

The clown reached my brother, who still hadn’t moved an inch, and unfurled to its full height. The red on the cheeks was now clearly blood, and something black oozed down from its shock of hair. It took Danny by the hand and looked up, right at me, smiling like nothing has ever smiled since. “Shall I?” he asked, with a voice so full of playful mischief that I felt bile rise in my throat. I wanted to shake my head, say no, but I never got a chance.

With a single, smooth motion, like whipping the tablecloth off in a restaurant, he pulled the skin off of whatever had been pretending it was my brother. I don’t know how to describe it. It was like an impressionist painting of a dancer, all colours and shapes that made you feel movement you couldn’t see. Silently, imperceptibly, moving from one position to another. The music had stopped and the dance was silent. It was beautiful.

The next thing I remember was the cool night air on my face, as the opera house patrons pushed past me to get into the evening performance of Tosca. In my hands I held an old black and white circus flyer. It was written all over in Cyrillic, but in the bottom left corner was a certain clown’s face, leering out at me, billed as the guest performer. As I watched, it crumbled to ash, and floated away on the breeze.

MARTIN
That was the last time you ever saw your brother?

TIM
Yeah.

MARTIN
You never went back?

TIM
To the auditorium? No. If I had, I… I don’t think they’d let me leave a second time.

MARTIN
That’s why you joined the Institute, isn’t it?

TIM
I thought I might be able to find something about what happened, but… I guess at some point I stopped seriously looking, and started to just… get comfortable.

MARTIN
Until Jon…

TIM
Until the Archives, yeah.

MARTIN
…

Tim, the, the clown that you described is-

TIM
Yeah, I know. It didn’t take too much looking around to match the description of Victorian London’s most famous clown

[MARTIN SIGHS]
Joseph Grimaldi. A Covent Garden theatre regular.

MARTIN
I mean, 200 years is a long time, but…

TIM
Yeah, it’s him, though. Or it looks like him. Or his ghost or something. I don’t know why, but… I think he’s with the Russian circus.

MARTIN
Yeah.

TIM
You’re reckon they’re trying to what, end the world?

MARTIN
I mean maybe it’s not… yeah, I think so.

TIM
And no one told me.

MARTIN
You were never here to tell, Tim.

TIM
Well, I am now! I don’t care about the rest of it, if anyone’s going to find that Circus, I’m coming too. You’re not going to stop me!

MARTIN
I mean, sure, sure, I think that’s actually a good i -

[THE DOOR OPENS]
ELIAS
Knock, knock.

TIM
[Sighs] Great.

MARTIN
Oh.

ELIAS
Martin, would you give us a moment?

MARTIN
I… uh…

ELIAS
Please.

MARTIN
Uh, right, um, s-sorry, Tim.

[THE DOOR CLOSES]
TIM
You were watching, then?

ELIAS
Most of it.

TIM
Surprised you didn’t know it already. That’s your thing, isn’t it?

ELIAS
I knew there was some trauma that drew you to us, but I can’t say I ever thought to look much deeper. An oversight, perhaps, but I’m looking now.

TIM
All right, hit me with your X-ray eyes then, boss. What do you see?

ELIAS
Disruption. An unpredictable, angry man with nothing left but the desire to feel in some way revenged.

TIM
[Sarcastic] Ooh, terrifying! Surely only magic could have let you see so deep inside my very soul.

ELIAS
Tim, I’m only going to tell you this once. Please stay away from The Unknowing, the Circus, all of it. I don’t believe you can help, and I don’t know what will happen if you get involved.

TIM
Oh sure. I’ll just forget about it. Go back to sulking in a corner.

ELIAS
Tim.

TIM
Don’t worry about me, boss, I’ll just stop. It’s what I’m best at, right? Don’t want to get in the way of your evil plans, do I?

ELIAS
I mean it, Tim.

TIM
[Incensed] Oh, oh, you mean it? Oh well, that’s different. Okay, well, let me tell you what. If you want me to ignore everything that’s going on, forget my brother and everything that’s happened over the last two years, how about you kill me?

ELIAS
…

I don’t want it to come to that.

TIM
Well, me either. But here we are. So my proposal for you is this: either kill me or fuck off.

ELIAS
…

I’ll come back when you’re feeling more… reasonable.

TIM
Then I guess I’ll see you in hell.

[ELIAS LEAVES]
[Upon noticing the tape recorder] Oh, piss off.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure you don’t mind?

XIAOLING
Of course not. Recording is what we are here for.

ARCHIVIST
And this is the same statement that Gertrude checked out?

XIAOLING
I will check again with my assistant, but it’s the only one we have from 太平天国运动 (1) written in English.

(1. “TÀIPÍNGTIĀNGUÓ YÙNDÒNG” OR “TAIPING HEAVENLY KINGDOM”, CHINESE ‘STATE’ FROM 1851-64 THAT STAGED A REBELLION TO OVERTHROW THE QING DYNASTY.)
ARCHIVIST
The Taiping Rebellion? I assumed it would be about a circus or, uh…?

XIAOLING
I have not read it, but I would be surprised. I seriously doubt there were any circuses at the time. I believe it was like a, um, 见鬼 (2)

(2. “JIÀNGUǏ” OR, LITERALLY, “HELL” OR “HELLSCAPE”.)
ARCHIVIST
[Snorts] I-Isn’t all war like a nightmare?

XIAOLING
Oh, 你说中文 (3)?

(3. “NǏ SHUŌ ZHŌNGWÉN” OR “YOU SPEAK CHINESE”.)
ARCHIVIST
I, I don’t, why?

XIAOLING
…

How long did you say you have been Archivist?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, about two years now.

XIAOLING
Well, Elias made a good choice. I did offer him someone, but he thought the language might be too much for him.

ARCHIVIST
Huh.

XIAOLING
我相信没关系是不是. (4)

(4. “WǑ XIĀNGXÌN MÉIGUĀNXÌ SHÌ BÙSHÌ” OR, LITERALLY, “I BELIEVE IT DOESN’T MATTER, IF IT IS NOT [TOO MUCH/A PROBLEM]”.)
ARCHIVIST
I-I suppose not.

XIAOLING
Anyway, I will leave you to your work. Let me know if you need anything.

ARCHIVIST
I will. Thank you.

XIAOLING
没关系. (5)

(5. “MÉIGUĀNXÌ” OR “IT’S OKAY / THAT’S NOTHING”.)
[XIAOLING LEAVES]
[DEEP SIGH]
ARCHIVIST
The details I got from Gertrude’s documents lead me to believe that, before she made her way to New Zealand, she paid a visit here, to the Pu Songling Research Centre, Beijing. The centre is something of a sister organisation to the Institute, and while that means I have some… reservations about their motives, it does mean gaining access to their collection is relatively simple. According to Zhang Xiaoling, the librarian here, this statement was the one that Gertrude checked out during her last visit. So…

Statement of Second Lieutenant Charles Fleming, regarding his experiences during the Taiping Rebellion. Original statement undated, but apparently written in early 1862. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Yellow reeds and white bones. Yellow reeds and white bones. I hear it said so often now it almost has the rhythm of a joke. How can one have poetic clichés for a massacre? How can unspeakable carnage become so tired and repetitive? Even the most trite and poorly written of the penny bloods would, at least, make some show of a plot, or a purpose to the horror and the suffering. But here, beyond those pages, it seems the dead simply pile higher and higher on both sides, and nothing changes but the number of ghosts. On one side atrocities in the name of one who claims to be brother of Christ; on the other, slaughter in the name of the supposedly sane men who would stop him and his Heavenly Kingdom. And I find myself walking through the still and bloody landscape that has consumed all of China, scrawling my confessions on any paper I can find not yet saturated by mud and death. I am a stranger here, yet if you told me I were dead, and this place my just reward, I would not for one second doubt your honesty. I have seen no vision of hell that can compare.

Neither could I say I have not earned it. Not for nothing do these drowned and murdered faces pursue me. Nemesis was my ship, under Captain William Hall. I was so eager to serve my country, how could I question what they asked us to do? The trade in opium was a cornerstone of the Empire, and when called upon to defend it against those Chinese that would threaten Britain’s rule of the waves, what could I do but answer? Was ever a man so eager to have his country beseech of him his violence?

And there was violence aplenty aboard Nemesis. First of its kind. An iron warship. Small, lightly armed, but able to go where other British vessels never dared, far upriver to strike at the very heart of the Qing forces, where their defences were weakest, and the damage we could inflict most brutal. Captain Hall had a particular zeal for the work. He was a petty man, bitter, and never missing an opportunity to mention how long he had waited to command a ship of his own. Were I to judge solely based on the orders he gave, I would have been forced to conclude it was the Chinese who had slighted him, and now he exacted his vengeance. Truth be told, I simply believe he was possessed of a great cruelty. A cruelty I shared.

I remember we sank a Qing ship off First Bar Island. Cambridge it was named, an old East Indiaman sold to the Chinese some years before. When she sank, a few crew made it aboard Nemesis, half-dead and utterly defeated. I cannot honestly recall whether Captain Hall ordered them drowned or whether I took it upon myself, confident in the Captain’s approval. Either way, it was certainly forthcoming. Theirs were the first faces that began to follow me. I would never have admitted that was why I paled when I passed by a looking-glass. Or why I shook my bunkmates awake, demanding that they stop singing.

Truth be told, no one knows how Nemesis sank. I certainly have my own beliefs, my own dreams of what may have reached up towards us and taken its price, dragging that dreadful iron curse to the bottom of the Canton River. All I remember is waking up to the screaming of buckling metal, the louder screaming of doomed men in the decks below, and that third, deeper set of screams, that sounded for all the world like a cry of triumph. I managed to get to the deck, and leap from the bow into the waters of the river. When I plunged below the surface and watched the hulk of Nemesis twisted and disappearing into the deep, deeper than the Canton River should have been, I saw the water around me full of corpses, but when I finally broke the surface, I was alone.

These corpses follow me still, though I am hard-pressed to see them now, surrounded as I am by death in all its myriad forms. If you ever wish to escape your pursuing guilt, there are few places so apt to hide it as a land devastated by unimaginable war. At least I shall not go hungry. I lost that particular moral qualm in Anqing. I believe thirty-eight fen was the going price for a pound of human meat by the end of the siege. Such a profound will to survive. In the end, it did no good. Zeng Guofan’s army breached the gates, and they put everyone inside to death. Sixteen thousand more corpses, soldier and civilian alike. There’s no difference anymore. Hide your hair braid beneath your hat, proclaim your allegiance until you have no breath left, compared to the danger of enemy spies or saboteurs, one more cadaver is nothing.

I’m lucky I still had my British uniform. Almost twenty years lost and abandoned in this country, a prisoner of the very opium I helped to force upon its people; I barely recognised myself putting it on. I’m lucky I never thought to sell it. It was an old design, a long way from the uniforms I see among my old comrades today, but it served well enough to get me through the Qing forces as they stormed through the streets. I am lucky, I suppose, that the only ghosts that chose to follow me were the ones I had to kill as I fled the city. I know there are others that see those behind me, and sixteen thousand lonely souls would be too much for them, I’m sure. They would be too much for me, but I’m not sure what that means anymore.

After the fall of Anqing, I wandered this desolate country, though for how long I do not know. Days went by with not a single living creature to be seen, and only the dead for company. Yellow reeds and white bones. It struck me then how few of the fallen had died by the hand of another. War kills just as surely with hunger and sickness, and for every one bloodied and murdered, there were ten wasted to nothing or black with disease and rot. I suppose there must have been a terrible smell, but there is nowhere here the wind does not chase me with that scent, and I can no longer tell the stench of decay from the air itself. They are one and the same.

Some months ago, I was captured. Not by the Taiping or the Imperial forces, at least they weren’t anymore. I believe they were once peasants, they had clearly never owned the building in which they kept me. There were three of them; one tall, who clearly spoke for his companions, one walking with a noticeable limp and an eye that refused to stop watering, and a third, whose right arm was so discoloured from a spreading infection, that he looked at me with a mixture of hate and helpless terror, as though I could do something to fix it. I did not fight when they barred my way with crude weapons levelled, and demanded my surrender. I have not fought since I left Anqing, and saw the true scale of the devastation.

Believing me to still be a British officer, they intended, it seemed, to ransom me, but they knew of no British forces in the area, so were arguing as to whether to offer me to the Qing army or the nearest rebels. The tall one was adamant that the Imperial Army, now allied with the British, would pay them for my safe return, while the limping man was horrified at the thought. He had cut off his braid, he kept saying, and they would think he was loyal to the Taiping. The third man just watched me, listening to his companions arguing, and laughing softly whenever they mentioned money. I believe that he was the only one who truly understood. When the dead that follow caught up with me, they broke those poor fools apart like twigs, and dragged all three of them below the ground. And they were gone. I found water among their possessions and a small bag of rotten rice, and relishing the chance to wash the taste of blood from my mouth, I ate. I could still hear my would-be captors’ voices, and I wondered how long it would be that I still had to wait for death.

Some choose not to wait, of course. I passed by the city of Hangzhou after it had fallen to the Taiping. The gate still stood open, as they were unable to close it for the dead. When the city was taken, the people had rushed out and thrown themselves bodily into the West Lake. It was solid with them. For three hundred yards you could have walked along their still bodies into the middle of the waters. I did, hoping against all hope that an arm might reach out and finally pull me down into that great mass of quiet death. But the waters of the lake were still and dark, and as I left, some who lay upon it rose to join me.

I have no idea where to go now. I have walked so long my feet are bleeding, and I see nothing upon the horizon but more slaughter. More days without the living. So I write this, that some small record of what I have done and what I have seen may continue on. I sit here upon the steps of a Manifest Loyalty Shrine, a small provincial one, erected by a local governor who wished to cement his power now the more central shines can no longer keep up with the number of the dead. But this one is mine. I look at the names of the fallen engraved on the walls, the long and storied lists, and I know that each name is borne by one of those that follow me. It is the list of those that wait for me at the bottom of these steps, though whether they wait to follow me further or to finally descend upon me, I do not know. But my name will never be carved upon this stone. Though war and death have found me in this land, I have no place here. I came for no cause but violence and greed, and have been humbled by the unimaginable brutality of true and total war. I have nothing left, except to hope that what remains of my own life is neither long nor memorable.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Good Lord. I had heard that the Taiping Rebellion was… but that… I wonder how much of what Lieutenant Fleming says is true and how much is, uh… I almost hope it’s all supernatural. Some hideous hallucination or otherworldly hellscape. Part of me really doesn’t want to look it up.

It looks like Xiaoling was right though. No Circus. Nothing even that resembles the working of The Stranger. It… it seems to be purely war and violence, whatever power that might be. So why did Gertrude want it? I feel like… I’ve chased dead end to dead end until I finally give up. I-I mean, what am I actually looking for? Gerard Keay, after he faked his death? Some long confession he left tucked away in a library somewhere, telling me the ancient chant I need to stop the Unknowing from coming to pass?

[Sigh] Maybe this is pointless. I should head home, help the others in their research. If I knew Mandarin or Cantonese, maybe I could look here for more answers, but as it is these files…

Hang on, I think… I think this says 2004. Yes, 1992… 1997… 2004. If I’m reading this right, this file hasn’t been accessed for… wait. Ohhhh…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
So it’s been a waste of time then, has it?

XIAOLING
It was a very simple mistake. She did read that statement.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, in 2004, yes, but I-I need information about her visit three years ago. Did, did your assistant find anything about that?

XIAOLING
Yes. There were two accounts that Gertrude took out in 2014.

ARCHIVIST
A-And can I read them?

XIAOLING
According to our records, we don’t have them anymore.

ARCHIVIST
[Sigh] Well, Wh-what happened to them? Where are they?

XIAOLING
Apparently, they were sent on at the request of the Magnus Institute.

ARCHIVIST
Gertrude asked for them t-to, to be sent to her?

XIAOLING
I believe so.

ARCHIVIST
To the Institute or…?

XIAOLING
No, we have other channels of delivery for that.

ARCHIVIST
Then where?

XIAOLING
I believe it was an American destination.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh, would you still have a-a copy of the address?

XIAOLING
I think we do.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you, Xiaoling.

XIAOLING
Not a problem, 建筑师. (6)

[CLICK]
(6. “JIÀNZHÚ SHĪ” OR, LITERALLY, “ARCHITECT”, USED HERE AS BEST TRANSLATION FOR ARCHIVIST.)
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MELANIE
Jan Kilbride’s account of his time spent aboard the space station, uh, Daedalus. Statement date February 10, 2008. Melanie King recording.

Start.

[CLAP]
MELANIE (STATEMENT)
The hardest thing to imagine, to really get your head around, is, is the scale at which the universe operates. You can drill down so small that you reach particles and building blocks that your brain simply can’t connect to. The physical reality that you inhabit, the fact that the vast majority of your own body is empty vacuum space, filled only with the weak forces that are binding you disparate atoms to one another - that can only really be understood an intellectual level. To really internalize that thought, to believe it, would be too much for most people.

And the other end - the sheer size at which the universe operates - literally cannot be fully conceptualized by the human mind. We have to reduce it to factors, or long strings of comparative zeros. Most people can’t even properly appreciate the size of our own planet, seeing only in crudely rendered diagrams or maps. But compared to us, the planet is immense. More than large enough for the swell of humanity to grow, and ultimately extinguish itself.

Yet compared to the wider universe, it isn’t even a noticeable speck. The human mind would reflexively want a place at the midway point, a perfect center balanced between the incredible size of the universe and the unthinkable smallness of the subatomic. But this is nothing but ego; a manifestation of our obsession with considering us some sort of a normative benchmark against which all else is measured. In truth, we are so much closer to the tiny, mindless atoms that make up our bodies than we are to a universe so enormous that fully imagining it is simply impossible.

Even with all I’ve seen, I still can’t communicate it. I can’t make people actually understand how horridly, nauseatingly boundless this universe is, and when I think of it too deeply, I feel like I’m going to throw up. Like a sort of existential vertigo.

It never used to scare me like this. I used to take a sort of comfort in it, in the thought that we were so small; such a minor blip in the life of the universe. Where others saw insignificance and pointlessness, I found freedom. A sort of optimistic nihilism, I suppose.

I know now it was all just denial, of course. It’s not easy to be scared of something that you can’t even think about. I miss those days: smoking out the window of a tower block, looking out over the lights of the city blinking up in defiance of the void, and thinking how daft it was. Like an ant shaking its fist at a god.

I think that’s really why I wanted to go to space - to put it all in perspective. That for one moment, I could look down and see it all, every human that ever existed, the living and the dead, hanging below me on a tiny ball of carbon.

And you know what? It was worth it. At least, I thought so at the time. That moment, that first look at the earth falling away below us, it was everything I dreamed it would be. And how often is that true? The Daedalus was in low enough orbit that I never got the whole planet in view, as I had hoped. But it didn’t matter. The first time, looking down and taking in the sheer scale of it, remains the most magnificent sensation I have ever experienced.

I don’t know how they picked me for the mission. A representative of some private consortium approached me about a year beforehand. I’d put in my application a few times, but I, I never really expected anything. I had all the skills, but I knew I wasn’t anyone’s first choice of astronaut. I simply wasn’t exceptional enough.

Also, I thought… Mr. Fairchild didn’t mention exactly why I was chosen, though he did reference my psychiatric profile a few times in the interview. I didn’t want to press him too hard on the reasoning in, in case I somehow lost the opportunity. Idiot.

There were technically three of us up there, although I only really spent any time with Manuela. The other one who came up with us - Chilcott, I think his name was - he was apparently doing some sort of separate isolation study. Can’t say I envied him. The door to his section of the station was daunting, to say the least. I mean, I’m an engineer, and honestly it looked like it was sturdier than the actual hull.

Manuela and I were instructed not to attempt any communication with him, and to be honest, that was fine by me. On those occasions we had to call in to his little chamber through the intercom, usually as part of maintenance or a systems check, he always sounded so distant. This flat, tinny monotone that set my teeth on edge, like a subtle vibration.

So we left him to it. We had plenty of our own work to do, anyway. Manuela Dominguez was quite a big name in certain areas of the physics community - or, at least, she had been. I hadn’t heard of any work she’d done for a good few years. And, as I say, I’m more on the engineering side of things, so it wasn’t really something I kept up with in detail.

While she was happy to talk, Manuela apparently didn’t like to discuss her professional life on Earth, or the specifics of the research she was doing on the Daedalus. Like Chilcott, her research was kept entirely separate from mine. And while we spent plenty of time together, I never did figure out exactly what it was. Something to do with lasers, I think.

As for my job, to be honest, it felt disappointingly like busy work. Stress-testing, zero gravity effects, material evaluations - for every test I was told to do, I could have listed a half dozen studies citing similar research from the ISS, most of which had had pretty conclusive results. If you had told me I was just being instructed to do the same things they did over there, but two years later, I’d have been hard-pressed to argue.

But there was something else. A different sort of worry that was building up inside me. It was like a gradual increase of air pressure: you never notice it happening until your ears pop. I didn’t realize how intense the sensation had gotten until, all at once, I knew what it was - what I was feeling.

It was the sense of a presence, of there being something out there. Something that wasn’t the earth. And it was getting closer.

When it started, I tried to talk to Manuela about it, but she seemed to think I was talking about aliens and quickly changed the subject. I suppose, in a way, I was, but nothing like she was imagining. “Alien” might be the best word for that presence, but not because we were sat on the edge of outer space; but because what it made me feel was beyond anything I had words for.

And still it grew closer. When this thing, this being finally called out, I didn’t just hear it. I felt it, vibrating through me with such a shuddering intensity that I was sure my bones would break into powder inside my skin.

The whole station shook violently, rattling and pitching. My first instinct was to check that the Earth was still below us, and not the victim of some dreadful cosmic disaster. But when I reached the window, it still hung there, serene below us.

As I looked, I saw drops of red floating through the air in front of me. I reached up to my ears, and my hand came away wet. Don’t try to tell me sound can’t travel in a vacuum, I know. I pushed off towards my quarters and the medical kit, but as I began to move through the station, I stopped. I didn’t grab or hit anything, I did nothing to slow my momentum, I just stopped. Floating there motionless, feeling like the whole of existence was frozen in place.

Then slowly, carefully, I went to grab one of the handles, to pull myself out of this zero-gravity limbo. But I couldn’t reach. The station was cramped so cramped that I could only fully stretch out in the section used to exercise, but now, somehow, in this tiny corridor, I couldn’t reach the walls. I flailed and I grabbed and I shouted, but somehow, it was all just too far away.

And I knew all at once that I would float there motionless until I died, and I saw the pointless illusion of the station - of the planet below - all hiding me from the uncaring expanse of the universe, in which I was now eternally trapped. The station was a hollow pretense of a shell that did nothing to separate me from the void.

And that cry came again, so loud and long and deep that it couldn’t not be the sound of a living thing, so vast and so ancient that thinking about it made me weep. And I screamed in turn.

My hands touched the rail at the exact moment that Manuela came to check on me. I was moving again. She asked if I was alright, though she clearly had no interest in the answer. She said she’d felt the station shake, but when I pressed, she claimed she hadn’t heard anything. Her eyes were red, and I noticed for the first time that the tips of her fingers were burned. I don’t know why I asked her, really. I knew then that she hadn’t heard it, that she would never hear it. And I felt completely alone. I remember I almost envied Chilcott, because at least he had known what he was signing up for.

The next month passed more normally, I think - though beyond a certain point, at the edge of everything you’ve ever known, the word “normal” loses its meaning. Manuela became more and more withdrawn, more focused on her own research, whatever it might have been, while I more or less stopped doing mine entirely. I got no new instructions. I would find myself staring out into space for a few minutes, and then when I checked the time hours would have passed. I don’t remember if I slept.

I honestly can’t remember if going out to work on the solar panels was repair work, or if I’d finally been given a new task that required going outside. I just remember sealing the bulky EVA suit and stepping into the airlock, pushing myself out, into the nothing.

The tether coiled out behind me, spooling meter after meter after meter… but I wasn’t going towards the solar panels. Why? Where was I going? I floated slowly off into the empty unending space, and the tether line just kept on going.

The station drifted further and further away. I could feel myself falling up, falling out, falling off of everything that could be called a world. The station was gone, as was the planet of my birth - everything that gave me my existence. It shrank as I watched, until it became less than the smallest dot.

I couldn’t have been that far away. It’s impossible. But I was. I was so far from all existence, surrounded by the vacuum of everything. I could feel my soul trying to expand, to fill never-ending absence. And it hurt.

I don’t know how long I was floating for. I know it was less than a billion years, which is barely a heartbeat in the life of the universe, so how can it really be said to matter?

The stars began to wink out, one by one, and I thought - perhaps for a second, perhaps for a hundred years - that I had reached the end of time, and I was watching the gradual fading of the universe. And then I realized the obvious: I could not see the stars because something was blocking them.

It moved and flowed across my vision. Every motion seemed to snuff out more light. There was no shape to see, no outline that could be drawn of this thing, so dark and enormous I could feel my stomach trying to vomit, my mind trying to expand, to take in the size of what moved between the stars, filling my entire vision and more.

I knew that if it chose to cry out, it would have destroyed me utterly. And I know that there was no possibility it could ever have noticed I existed.

I do not believe in God. I can’t believe that a being with such limitless power and knowledge would still notice humanity, would understand or care about its existence.

But I keep thinking back to an old professor of mine, back when I briefly studied neuroscience. Talking about consciousness, about how we still don’t honestly know what it is, where it comes from, what aspect of the brain makes it possible. And I wonder if there might not be consciousnesses out there so far beyond our comprehension that we could not properly recognize them as such. Minds so strange and colossal that we would never know they were minds at all. Perhaps, out there in the endless vast, they would not notice or recognize us in return.

And I wish that I could convince myself that ignorance was the same thing as safety. But then, how many weeds have you unthinkingly stepped on in your lifetime?

MELANIE
Statement ends.

Oh! That… um, well, that seems… that seems to be… that’s all of it? Hmm.

Well, Jan Kilbride definitely returned to Earth with his colleagues, and he certainly seems to have given this statement in person, so… I mean, he did come back somehow. Assuming he ever left. It might have been a hallucination of some sort. Isolation and stress can do odd things to you, of course. [heh] Not to mention the evident insomnia.

And if it is true - if what Jan Kilbride saw was real, I mean… to be honest, it sounds a bit beyond my paygrade. [heh] Whatever my paygrade is. And I have enough insomnia of my own to deal with.

I did do some checking on the Daedalus - I mean, you’ve got to do something haven’t you? Mr. Kilbride seems to have the right of it, in terms of his job. There have been exactly zero peer-reviewed pieces of research that have in any way referenced or cited studies or tests conducted on the Daedalus. From the point of view of the scientific community, the project might as well have never happened.

Also, I um, I can’t find Jan Kilbride. He definitely returned. I found more than one photograph of the trio’s arrival back on Earth: Carter Chilcott being attended by medical personnel, and the other two looking tired… but alive. There are also a couple of short newspaper stories mentioning in their safe return.

But it seems as though Kilbride made his way over to the Institute a few weeks after touchdown, made his statement, and then: nothing. I can’t find any sign of him, and neither can Basira or Martin. Not on Earth, at least. I really don’t want to say he vanished into thin air, but… he’s vanished into something.

Beyond that, there’s only a few things worth -

BASIRA
Are you ready for that drink?

MELANIE
Well - oh, yes, yes, just give me a second. Finishing off a statement.

BASIRA
Oh, sorry. I thought, you know, because the door was open…

MELANIE
Oh, no, no, I just needed a bit of air flow.

BASIRA
Yeah, it’s, it is not cool down here.

MELANIE
Summer in the basement, I suppose.

BASIRA
Yeah. You know, speaking of not cool - did Martin say he was coming today?

MELANIE
Wow. Ouch.

BASIRA
Oh, what, you’re gonna judge me? I literally don’t know anyone here you haven’t made cry.

MELANIE
You only know Tim and Martin!

BASIRA
And Elias.

MELANIE
I made Elias cry.

BASIRA
I don’t know, probably. You can be very mean.

MELANIE
[Hah!] Right, well… the jury’s still out on Elias. And anyway, Martin’s always been lovely to you.

BASIRA
Hmm. I don’t know, I mean, you should have seen him when I turned up last year. I think he thought I was trying to steal his precious Archivist.

MELANIE
Ahhh. I got the exact same when John was hiding out, and came to me with his “source on the inside” stuff. Martin was not impressed.

BASIRA
[Ugh] That boy needs to relax.

MELANIE
Or at least find someone else to fuss over!

BASIRA
Yeah, he’s got it bad.

[PAUSE]
BASIRA
Do you know if he and John ever…

MELANIE
No clue, and not interested! Although… according to Georgie, John doesn’t.

BASIRA
Like, at all?

MELANIE
Yeah.

BASIRA
Yeah, that does explain some stuff. - wait, hang on, do I, do I know Georgie?

MELANIE
I don’t think so. Georgie Barker? She does “What the Ghost”.

BASIRA
No way. I used to love that show. I mean, the first couple of seasons, at least. Took a weird turn in season three, when they introduced -

MELANIE
Well, she and John, they, dated…

BASIRA
Yeah.

MELANIE
I mean, it was years ago…

BASIRA
Huh. I always used to put on podcasts, when I was driving around, you know, when I wasn’t on duty. I mean, when Daisy didn’t need the radio.

MELANIE
[laughing] I literally cannot picture Daisy listening to the radio!

BASIRA
The Archers.

MELANIE
No. [laughing]

BASIRA
Hands of God.

MELANIE
I actually do not believe you!

BASIRA
She never missed an episode.

[LOUD EXHALATION]
BASIRA
Oh, sorry, do you need to finish up?

MELANIE
No… I, I actually, I have no idea what I was going to say. I did have more notes on, um, on space, I guess, but, uh… forget it. Let’s go.

BASIRA
Alright, well, I should probably go check in with Martin, you know. See if he’s in for drinks.

MELANIE
So you can double-check your gossip.

BASIRA
I don’t gossip! I have the mind of an investigator.

MELANIE
Right, okay. Anyway, I’ll go find him. I could really do with the walk. Do you want to go ahead, and grab the booth?

BASIRA
Yeah, sure. I can wait. I’ve got a book.

MELANIE
Of course you do.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
ELIAS
Come in, Melanie.

MELANIE
Martin said you wanted to see me?

[DOOR CLOSING]
ELIAS
Yes, please come in. I thought it was about time for your first performance review.

[MELANIE LAUGHS]
MELANIE
I, um, I didn’t even know that was a… well, there wasn’t anything scheduled.

ELIAS
No. Well, given the recent, um, tensions in the office -

MELANIE
[Heh]

ELIAS
- I thought it probably best if you weren’t aware of it in advance.

MELANIE
Right.

ELIAS
Less time to prepare, you understand.

MELANIE
Right.

ELIAS
So. Have a seat.

You’ve been with us a few months now, I believe.

MELANIE
Yes.

ELIAS
And how are you finding it?

MELANIE
Is that a joke?

ELIAS
Aside from the obvious, I mean.

MELANIE
Oh, well. I, I suppose it’s been unstructured.

Without John around, and with you being sat up here lurking, there’s not been a lot of useful direction.

ELIAS
I see

MELANIE
I mean, you pick out a statement occasionally, and John might phone in to ask after some scrap of information. But to be honest, no one’s even really told me what an “archival assistant” is actually supposed to do.

ELIAS
So how have you been occupying your time?

MELANIE
[annoyed exhalation] Reading, mostly. Doing some of my own research.

ELIAS
Into what?

MELANIE
My own projects.

ELIAS
Of course. And plotting my demise.

MELANIE
When I get a chance, yes.

ELIAS
Hm.

MELANIE
I suppose that doesn’t look very good on my review.

ELIAS
Quite frankly, no.

MELANIE
Well, if you need to fire me, I won’t make a scene.

ELIAS
No. No, I’m afraid not.

MELANIE
Sure. [sigh]

ELIAS
I wish I knew the words that would make you believe me.

MELANIE
What? That you are a literal deadman switch? [muttering] For goodness sake…

[MELANIE LAUGHS AND INTERJECTS IMPATIENTLY OVER ELIAS AS HE MONOLOGUES AT HER]
ELIAS
You know, if that was the only issue, I could have simply placed the knowledge in your mind.

MELANIE
What!?

ELIAS
You already have doubts, though. You’ve been talking with Tim, and have convinced yourself that -

[MELANIE LAUGHS]
ELIAS
- even if I’m telling the truth, I’m too dangerous to live.

MELANIE
Well.

ELIAS
Whatever I’m planning needs to be stopped -

[MELANIE LAUGHS]
ELIAS
- even if it cost a few lives. Including your own.

MELANIE
Well, that’s not even -

ELIAS
A rationalization, of course. A lie about your own selfishness: that you would rather be dead than trapped without the self-determination you prize so highly. I wish I knew the words to convince you it’s for the best.

[PAUSE]
MELANIE
Are we done?

[ELIAS RESUMES MONOLOGUING, MELANIE RESUMES MAKING EXASPERATED NOISES OVER HIM]
ELIAS
It’s too deep. I can see almost anything I care to -

MELANIE
[muttering] Christ.

ELIAS
- {{retrieve? weave?}} knowledge from someone’s mind, or place it there. But I just cannot change the nature of a person. And I am struggling to think of what could rid you of this misguided rage.

MELANIE
So let me go! Or, kill me!

ELIAS
You know, that is the second such ultimatum I’ve heard in as many weeks. But no. There are always other options. And I am not above threats.

MELANIE
Threaten, then. I’ve got nothing.

ELIAS
That’s… almost true. Your life is indeed shockingly absent of any meaningful connections. That’s actually one of the reasons I chose you for this job.

Your father was your last real anchor, wasn’t he?

MELANIE
That’s none of your business.

ELIAS
Perhaps. Five years is plenty of time to grieve. It’s a real tragedy, isn’t it. Dementia? Especially so early. But he always remembered you, didn’t he? “Little moth.”

MELANIE
Shut up.

ELIAS
At least you got him into a decent care home. Hard to afford on an irregular income like yours, but your mother’s life insurance helped plenty.

[MELANIE IS BREATHING HARD, POSSIBLY REPRESSING TEARS]
And Ivy Meadows wasn’t as expensive as some of them. It’s a shame about the fire. But I would have thought it would offer something of a relief.

MELANIE
What are you talking about?

ELIAS
Oh. Of course. They told you he died in his sleep, didn’t they? Smoke inhalation. A real tragedy, but at least he didn’t suffer.

MELANIE
I -

ELIAS
Do you want to know what really killed him?

[MELANIE GASPS AND SOBS]
[ELIAS CONTINUES HIS MONOLOGUE, SPEAKING OVER AS MELANIE AS SHE CRIES]
ELIAS
Awful, isn’t it? He really suffered. Not really your fault. Just bad luck. That doesn’t comfort you, does it?

MELANIE
[crying] Take it back, take, take it back…

ELIAS
I’m afraid that’s not really something I can do. I can promise not to make it worse though.

MELANIE
What… no…

ELIAS
You know how your father really died. And I am sure that is unimaginably painful for you. But be aware: if I choose to, I can make you see it.

MELANIE
No… no, no…

ELIAS
If you try to interfere with me again in any way, I will drive that image so deep into your psyche that even if you are right - even if you live - it will be there every time you close your eyes.

[ELIAS FINISHES MONOLOGUING AND PAUSES; MELANIE CONTINUES TO CRY]
ELIAS
[normal voice] That’s alright. Take your time. Tell you what, why don’t you take the rest of the day off? I’m sure you have a lot to process.

Anyway, aside from all of that, I’d say your performance has been satisfactory.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[BACKGROUND NOISE OF CROWDED AIRPORT]
ARCHIVIST
I’ve, uh, just touched her in O’Hare International Airport, following up on the address I received from Xiaoling.

Apparently they were staying in West Pullman, Chicago. At least, they were when Gertrude requested the statements forwarded on to them. I’m going to get a hotel and follow up the address tomorrow.

I wouldn’t normally bother recording here, but I think… I thought I was being followed.

(sigh) I might just be jumpy. I’ll keep my eyes peeled.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
The address didn’t really pan out. The place deals in short-term rentals, and a dozen people must have gone through that apartment since Gertrude and Gerard stayed there.

The owner did remember her - “that old Brit and her son” - but he said anything they left behind was either sold or thrown out. They did leave a forwarding address, of sorts: anything that came was to be sent on to the Usher Foundation in Washington, DC. Who, I assume, would send it on to the Magnus Institute.

I asked him about circuses around at the time, and he said he didn’t remember there being one, but a few nights while Gertrude was there, he had heard music - “like one of those little organs” - coming from West Pullman Park.

I’m planning to make the journey down to Washington in the hopes that Gertrude might have visited the Usher Foundation. According to our earlier emails, they don’t have any record of it on file, but… (sigh)

I did notice however the one of the Greyhound routes there goes through Pittsburgh. Now, according to the details Melanie retrieved a few months back, Pittsburgh is where Gerard Keay allegedly died. He was admitted to UPMC Presbyterian emergency department having suffered a massive seizure, and died less than a day later. I think I might have to pay a visit and ask around.

…

(sigh) Also, I’m definitely being followed.

There’s a police officer, I saw him at the airport as well, he stood out a bit because he wasn’t immigration, or TSA or anything like that. He just, he just looked like a Chicago beat cop.

Well, I saw him again today. And I’m pretty sure he was watching me.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
(hoarsely, wheezing intermittently) The, the hospital was, the hospital was interesting. It’s all very well being able to get people to answer your questions, but if they genuinely don’t remember something, it’s not always as useful as it seems.

I only found one person, Louis Brown, a nurse, who recalls working the night Gerard Keay was admitted. His “mother” was with him - and I almost feel like Gertrude took a perverse joy in the pretense - she explained his condition to the doctor, though could apparently offer no good reason he wasn’t in full-time treatment, as his cancer was by this point… very advanced. (sigh) They did everything they could to save him, but he had a second seizure shortly after he was admitted, and there was nothing they could do.

Unless he was somehow able to lie to me this nurse, Louis, honestly believes Gerard Keay is dead. (sigh) Maybe I came all this way for nothing.

…

There’s one thing I very much do need to follow up on, though. Apparently Gertrude was arrested shortly afterwards. Louis only heard about this secondhand, but she was… apparently… caught breaking into the morgue… where Gerard’s body was being kept…

I need some sleep.

I haven’t seen a cop since I left Chicago, so maybe I was wrong.

…

I’m not feeling so good.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
(hoarse, sluggish- and vague-sounding) I’ve been looking into Gertrude’s arrest. I couldn’t get through to Melanie, but Martin managed to find a few details online.

Gertrude was arrested for trespassing, but released shortly afterwards without being charged. I managed to track down the arresting officer, one Jay Rebecks, who said that she’d been found over the body of Gerard Keay reading from a large, strangely-shaped book.

They’d been unable to determine if the mutilations on Gerard’s body had been done by her, and in the end she somehow managed to talk them out of pressing charges.

Officer Rebecks didn’t remember what she’d said, but he did recall that she’d never returned for the book. It was sitting in evidence for almost a year before, as far as Rebecks was aware, it simply vanished.

I, I don’t really know what to make of any of this. I’m, uh, I’m confused, I’m, I’m dizzy, I, I think I saw the police officer from Chicago again, in the station where I was talking to Rebecks.

I…

I’m not… feeling well…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
(very hoarse) Elias has, um…

I, I, got a letter, well, an envelope… it’s, it’s a statement. There’s, there’s a note, “to tide you over,” and, uh…

…

Statement of Howard Ewing, regarding his interview with an unidentified member of British Transport Police. Original statement given February 1st, 2010. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
The room is hot. It’s small and there are no windows, and the table is sheet metal. It shouldn’t be so hot in January, but I think maybe they’ve just got the heating turned up too high. When I rest my arm on the table too long, I can see the patches of sweat on the smooth surface as I lift them up again. I’ve asked for water so many times, and he always says it’s coming, but it hasn’t come yet.

He just sits there. He’s wearing the uniform of the British Transport Police. Three pips on his shoulder, but he won’t show me his badge, he won’t show me any ID.

Why are they doing this? I didn’t do anything. The officers that brought me here were friendly, kind. It was only after they left and it got so hot and he started sitting across from me.

He’s smiling, asking me questions again and again.

“What were you doing earlier tonight?”

My job, I was doing my job. Cleaning Moorgate Station. Me and Kelly and Vihan were the night cleaners and that’s what we were doing. We’d done the ticket office and the corridors and the entrances and we were getting started on the platforms. Why is that so hard for him to understand?

He laughs, and I wince as sweat drops into my eye.

“When did you first notice something was wrong?”

We had just started work on the platform itself when we heard the tannoy come on. I don’t know how. As far as I kne, it wasn’t even powered. But there was that slight crackle and then: “this is a security announcement”

We all waited, confused, but what came out next sounded muffled, like it was coming up through five feet of water. I couldn’t make out any of the words, and from the looks on their faces, neither could my colleagues. We strained to listen, but after a few seconds it was silent again.

We all looked at each other and Vihan started to shrug when there came an incredible shrieking noise from the speakers. It felt like needles through my eardrums, and it was all I could do to stay upright. I saw Kelly fall to the floor clutching her head.

Then it stopped completely, and we all looked at each other again, catching our breath, trying to figure out who to report this to, and how.

“How did you become aware of the train?”

The first thing I noticed was the smell. Even before the noise or the heat, there was a sticky greasy smell in the air, like burning chemicals and spoiled bacon. I tried to figure out where it was coming from, and I realized it got stronger the closer to the tunnel mouth I moved. By the time I reached the end of the platform I was almost gagging.

The others looked like they had mostly recovered from the screeching tannoy, and were noticing my odd movements and came over to investigate themselves.

I saw Vihan pull a face as he approached, and I pointed weakly to the opening of the tunnel. I carefully climbed down onto the tracks and looked out into the dark that led to Old Street. That’s when I saw it.

“What did the carriage look like?”

It was hard to tell through the flames. They were all over it, curling and writhing and crawling through the crevices in the wreckage. It wasn’t intact, though. Parts of it were clearly crumpled and broken, and I saw shards of steel and glass embedded in the wall. It was lit by the dim red flames.

“What did it look like?”

There were people still inside. I could see them, arms and heads reaching out of broken windows and split metal, blackened and rendered almost unrecognizable by the fire and the heat, but they still moved and twitched and cried out in pain and terror, scratching at the edge of their burning metal tomb. But everything was choked and surrounded by a thick acrid black smoke that stunned my eyes and lungs, so nothing seemed the same from one moment to the next.

“What did it look like?”

It looked like hell.

“What did you hear?”

Everything. The tunnel echoed and funneled the sounds until I could hear every agonized cry, every pop and crackle of the fire, the groaning of metal that matched the groaning of the wounded and the dying, it all hit me at once, like the tunnel was pushing the tidal wave of sound out just for me. The shape was perfect for a terrible screaming oven.

From behind me I heard the shouts of Kelly and Rehan, though I don’t know if it was because they saw it, too, or because they saw me fall to my knees in horror.

I could hear the tannoy again, now clearly speaking: “Will Inspector Sands please report, will Inspector Sands please report,” over and over again.

He smiles, and the tiny room gets hotter.

“Who is Inspector Sands?”

It’s a code, one of the codes we use to alert staff to situations of disaster or fire. It usually means there’s a fire. It’s to keep people calm. It’s meant to not cause any panic, keep them safe, even if there’s an emergency.

He laughs, and I wish I could go home.

“How many people were on the train?”

I don’t know.

“What sort of train carriage was it?”

I don’t know.

“Where did it come from?”

I don’t know.

“Did you scream?”

Yes.

At least I think so. The back of my throat was dry and hot and painful, so my mouth must have been open. I think I was screaming.

“What were your colleagues doing?”

Vihan was gripping me by the shoulders, shaking me, yelling at me to wake up. But I was awake, I was wide awake, and I think in some ways he was talking to himself. Kelly was walking past me, trying to battle through the choking rancid smoke.

I hope she was planning to try and rescue those trapped in the wreckage, but maybe she was simply trying to join them.

I couldn’t do anything to help either of them, and I knew that if I touched them I would burn them.

He inhales as if in triumph.

“And where are they now?”

They’re dead.

At least that’s what I was told when the officers brought me here.

They found no wreckage, nothing in the tunnels, no corpses wailing through an underground inferno, just the dead and burnt bodies of Kelly Dwyer and Vihan Prasad.

“What do you love most in the world?”

The question sends a shock through my whole body. I know this is what he wants, all he truly cares about. I want to lie, to say that I love nothing and nobody, that I am alone in the world, and he’ll have to look elsewhere. My tongue burns in my mouth as I try to keep it still.

“What do you love most in the world?”

My father. I love my father more than anything.

“Who am I?”

I don’t answer, and he lets me leave.

My father is dead a week later.

A heart attack at the age of 63. Everyone is surprised and saddened, but not shocked. I try to tell myself it’s a coincidence, that a heart attack is the most natural death in the world, but at the funeral, despite arranging it myself, despite selecting the burial plot and the headstone, I watch as they take my father off for cremation, and nobody can tell me why. They simply say how sorry they are for my loss, and hand me my father’s ashes. I don’t want his ashes.

I know he’ll be back, the policeman with three bright pips on his shoulder.

And he’ll ask me what else I love. And I’ll tell him.

Then he’ll ask me who he is, and I won’t say.

I don’t want to cause any panic.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

…

(sigh) I’m going to bed.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
I feel… a lot better.

I’d love to rattle off a list of potential other reasons for this - nice rational causes of recovery - but… I think we’re past the point of transparent rationalizations. It looks like the recording of statements has now passed over from psychological compulsion into a more physical dependence.

I don’t know whether this is some sort of classical addiction, or something a bit deeper. But either way, this is not the time for experimentation. I am on a deadline, and if I need to be reading statements to stay well enough, then I suppose that’s what I shall do.

What irritates me most is that Elias was clearly aware of this, hence his sending me this, which seems to serve no other purpose but as a restorative. But, as usual, he chose to keep this very useful information to himself.

I think I’ve reached another dead end here. I’ve decided it’s the last one. The Institute needs me there, not jetting around the world following a cold trail that may well not have led to anything useful the first time.

(sigh) I’ve a Greyhound booked down to Washington DC tomorrow. I’m going to stop in at the Usher Foundation, just in case they have anything that might help, and then I’m flying home.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
I’m at a rest stop. The, uh, the buses, they’re, they’re giving us a comfort break, but there’s, there’s a woman here in the cafe, the diner, whatever. I’ve seen her car, I think she’s following the bus. She’s early 30s, I think, dressed nondescript: hard-wearing denim, old leather.

And she is… definitely watching me. She doesn’t look like - she’s coming over, I think -

Hello? Uhh, can I… help you?

WOMAN
Sure. Whatever you’re reaching for, don’t.

ARCHIVIST
I… what?

WOMAN
Keep your hands on the table, and we can all walk away from this.

ARCHIVIST
You, you’re English.

WOMAN
So are you. Ah-ah! Hands on the table.

ARCHIVIST
Who are you?

WOMAN
Julia. Who are you?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… uh, you don’t know me?

JULIA
Should I?

ARCHIVIST
No, I-I guess! Just, uh, I mean everyone normally seems to.

JULIA
Hm. Good for you.

ARCHIVIST
N-not really.

JULIA
So, who are you?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, uh, uh, Jonathan! - uh, John. Sims. Uh, I’m the Head Archivist for the Magnus Institute. London.

JULIA
Oh, you don’t say. So what brings you down to the I-70. Pennsylvania.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, look, I mean… you’re the one following me.

JULIA
We were told you were asking some interesting questions around a few places back in Pittsburgh. And you seem to have attracted the attention of something we’ve been watching for a while.

ARCHIVIST
…uh… my, my bus is leaving…

JULIA
Let it. You’re riding with me.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t think so.

JULIA
Then try to run.

Go on.

ARCHIVIST
So… kidnapped. Again.

JULIA
Think of it like… an escort. Personal bodyguard.

You’re heading to DC, right? Come on, we can chat in the car. I’m sure you’ve got a ton of librarian stories. The miles will just fly by.

ARCHIVIST
Do I have any choice?

JULIA
If you did you’d only make a mistake.

[ARCHIVIST SIGHS]
Come on.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SOUNDS OF INSIDE OF MOVING CAR]
ARCHIVIST
…are you alright? You seem, uh…

JULIA
Sure. Just keeping an eye out. Waiting, you know.

…

So you’re from the Magnus Institute?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, yes. You, you know the Institute…?

JULIA
Oh, yeah. Checked myself in there a while back. Ended up spilling my guts to this old woman about my dad. Just, letting it all out.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, uh, that would be Gertrude. My, my predecessor.

JULIA
Didn’t catch her name.

Weirdest thing, really. Didn’t mean to spill half of it, but… really helped me put the pieces together. You know?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, I’m starting to.

JULIA
Hm.

You still haven’t told me what you’re doing this side of the pond. Or why you’re asking around about Gerard Keay.

ARCHIVIST
Uh (nervous laugh)… would you… believe me if I said I was trying to save the world?

JULIA
Probably not.

ARCHIVIST
…

What about you?

What brings the daughter of Robert Montauk all the way out here? And why, exactly are you -

[SIRENS AS POLICE CAR APPROACHES]
[JULIA PULLS OVER TO THE SIDE OF THE ROAD]
JULIA
(quietly) Hunting.

[FOOTSTEPS AS POLICE OFFICER APPROACHES]
[TAP ON WINDOW; JULIA ROLLS IT DOWN]
POLICE OFFICER
License and registration.

JULIA
Can I see some ID, please?

POLICE OFFICER
Of course… you British?

JULIA
I have my green card, Officer… Mustermann.

MUSTERMANN
And your friend?

JULIA
Visiting from home!

ARCHIVIST
Julia…

MUSTERMANN
Does he have his passport on him?

ARCHIVIST
Julia.

JULIA
I assume so. Can’t say I asked him - John.

ARCHIVIST
J-J-Julia, I-I don’t, I don’t think - ah…

MUSTERMANN
Step out of the car, please, sir.

JULIA
Now, hang on a second.

MUSTERMANN
Step out. Of the car.

[TWO METALLIC CLUNKING SOUNDS]
MUSTERMANN
Pop the trunk, ma’am.

JULIA
I mean, there’s nothing in there.

MUSTERMANN
I’m not gonna ask you again.

JULIA
…

Fine.

MUSTERMANN
Don’t move. Either one of you.

[FOOTSTEPS]
[SOUND OF TRUNK BEING OPENED]
MUSTERMANN
HOLY SH -

[A GUNSHOT]
[JULIA LAUGHS AS MUSTERMANN SWEARS AND SHOUTS]
[ANOTHER GUNSHOT]
[GRUNTING]
[FOOTSTEPS]
MAN
Oh, bloody hell, Jule. You said he’d stop after a couple of miles. Been near on an hour.

Ohhh, look at my neck, it don’t feel right…

JULIA
Oh, you knew it might take a while.

MAN
This him, then?

JULIA
It is. John, Trevor.

ARCHIVIST
Uh - T-Trevor Herbert, the, the Vampire Killer!

TREVOR
Julia…

JULIA
He works for the Magnus Institute. He’s read all about us.

TREVOR
Oh. Well, isn’t that something.

JULIA
My thoughts exactly.

TREVOR
Time for that later. You two help me now, this one needs its head off.

JULIA
You didn’t kill it?!

TREVOR
We don’t know what it is yet, do we?

JULIA
Ugh!

ARCHIVIST
What, the, the, the police officer? I think I have an idea.

TREVOR
Oh-ho! Do you now. Then you get the axe. It’s in the boot.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I, I don’t…

JULIA
Come on.

ARCHIVIST
…right. Uh…

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Martin Blackwood, archival assistant at the Magnus Institute recording statement number 0092008. Statement of Adonis Biros, given August 20th, 2009.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
It’s been so hot recently, that sticky sort of hot you only really get in the city. On the beach, watching the clear blue waters swell and recede, it would be wonderful to simply sit, still and alone; to experience it. But in the city there is no stillness, no privacy. The swell is that of rank, sweaty humanity , and to press through them is to work the dirt and dust that infuses the air into your own skin. The stink is deeper than just a simple smell.

I suppose I’m lucky that my work rarely takes me out during the middle of the day. I am an actor by trade, and both skilled and fortunate enough to find myself employed more often than not. I’m not sure I would say I enjoy it, necessarily, but I do find a certain fulfillment in it

I remember the first time I felt the calling. I was nine years old, visiting my grandparents in Athens, and my parents had taken me on a trip to see the great amphitheatre. It was winter, not the season for tourists. My parents were off in a corner somewhere arguing, but just for a moment I had the place entirely to myself. And I felt it: that strange centering, that spot at the core of everything where you and you alone speak. Your words heard by no one - and in that no one, the entire universe.

Yes, I am aware that normally there is - unless something has gone badly wrong - an audience, or at the very least other actors with which to trade dialogue. And that’s fine. But that is not what I live for. I live for the monologue: when all others fade away and the light tightens on me, excluding all else.

Have you ever had stage lights in your eyes? The brightness steals everything else, and if it’s strong enough, you can look out into the audience and see nothing at all. Just you.

I am a fine actor, and a very capable physical performer, but these are simply the dues I pay to earn my way to a monologue. For the last two weeks, I have been performing the part of Jaques in As You Like It. Do you know your Shakespeare?

Well, it’s not the greatest production of the play, which can be very funny if done right. The director, a man named David Austin, has neither the vision nor the spark to turn it into something truly memorable, and the reviews reflect that. I don’t care, though. That’s not why I do it. You see, there is one part of as you like it that almost every English-speaking person will know, and that is a monologue by Jaques:

“All the world’s a stage,

And all the men and women on it merely players:

They have their exits and their entrances;

And one man in his time plays many parts,

His acts being seven ages.”

I told you you’d know it. And for all his failings Mr. David Austin made one directorial decision for which I cannot praise him enough: during this soliloquy, he has the other actors in the scene walk upstage, beyond the lights, and has me delivering the lines out into the audience alone.

For the play, it’s a bad decision: that scene is supposed to be Jaques performing, joking, for the amusement of the Duke and his friends, so this staging makes something that should be light and energetic into a serious and soulful meditation, and it doesn’t work from a dramatic point of view. But for me, declaiming, casting my voice out, surrounded by people watching me, yet completely alone… I have rarely had a part that feeds my soul like this one.

It helps that we’re performing at the Duke’s Theatre in Covent Garden: it’s about as traditional a theatre as you’re likely to find, and when the light shines, the audience is rendered as mere silhouettes, completely anonymous.

At least, until four nights ago.

It was my big moment: Act 2, Scene 7. The others had vanished, the audience was gone, and it was just me. At least, at first. I remember it was as I began to talk about “the justice,” the fifth age of man, that I saw it. It was a mask, a theatre mask. Not one of the happy-sad ones you might associate with the stage, but like an old Greek chorus mask, neutral with a faint aspect of mourning about the mouth and eyes. It sat on top of a thick black cloak draped to completely cover whoever might be wearing the mask.

But I knew it was empty. It was a hollow shape of a man that had no life, no presence to it. And I saw it in the middle of the third row as clearly as if it were lit by a second spotlight.

I stumbled. Of course I stumbled. I don’t believe anyone in the actual audience really noticed, though the other actors offered their faux-sympathies over it afterwards. I did make it to the end, and pushed on through the rest of the performance, but the mask did not disappear, and watching the other actors quickly convinced me that either they did not notice the thing in the third row, or they simply could not see it.

Oddly, I’ve never feared for my sanity. I’ve always been… superstitious, and I had no doubt that what I had seen was some sort of spectre or omen. Of what, however, I had absolutely no idea. To be perfectly honest, I still don’t. This is one of the reasons I am here: because I have this deep and gnawing fear that it portends nothing but itself, and within that, there is some strangely aweful fate waiting for me.

I have never been quite as social as I am told an actor should be. Rehearsals have always been a professional thing for me, and have rarely resulted in friendships, and I actively avoid after-show drinks. It will perhaps not surprise you to discover I instead prefer to walk the city, to find those streets and places where the night crowd does not gather, and wander those empty lights, clearing my head as I leave the heat and cloying conversation behind. In the summer months, this ritual is almost a necessity for me to remain stable, my steps taking me through the echoing streets and artificial lights, an edifice to humanity uncluttered by the messy existence of actual people.

The mask and cloak did not appear at the theater the following night. I looked for it, yet saw nothing but an audience of silhouettes, quiet and intent, save for when applause was required.

It wasn’t my best performance, on edge as I was, but I got through it. Afterward, Patrick Dunlevy, who played Orlando, was more insistent than usual that I join them for drinks after the show, and it took all my composure to keep my excuses polite, as the sticky heat of his presence pressed through over the fading warmth of the stage lights and the high summer that pervaded even the Duke of York.

But I did escape him, and fled into the cooling dampness of the city streets by night. Streets which I knew were less likely to be populated were mercifully deserted, and the windows of the buildings either side were lit, but empty of anybody visible. My breathing began to slow, my steps became more sure, and the oppressive thickness of the air lessened just enough for me to relax.

I began to look up at all the darkened windows above street level. It’s a strange truth to realize that, for all the throng of humanity that exists in central London, almost nobody actually lives there. All the apartments and residences that sit above the bustling shopfronts and businesses are almost all empty. Bought as investments by the financiers and oligarchs who have no desire or need to live in them. If you raise your eyes upwards in central London, and count the lit windows, it’s not at all unusual to see none at all.

But that night, as I caught my breath and raised my head, there was a lit window on the second floor, and within it, a masked mockery of a human figure. My face fell, until I had the odd certainty that my expression matched that of my pursuer, and panic began to settle over my brain, pinprick-crawling from the back, inch by inch over my skull. And I knew that when it reached my eyes I would run.

The figure didn’t move. Of course it didn’t, there was nothing to it that could move - no will that could make it follow me. And yet, it still watched, its hollow empty eyes drawing me into it.

I ran for some time, through streets I knew should be humming with drunks and nighthawks and insomniacs, but they were all silent. I was alone. Sometimes when I turned a corner, at the far end I could see it, waiting for me, and I would turn away. Sometimes, when I looked over my shoulder, I would see it there, following me with its stillness, its absence.

Once I looked up, and the windows were full of it.

I don’t know how long I ran, but in the end I fell, physically spent, and sunken in despair. Raising my head, I saw it before me, waiting. So I stood, and began to walk slowly towards it.

It gave no reaction, simply awaiting my arrival. As I got closer, I saw it more clearly: the heavy weave of the black woolen cloak; the shining porcelain of the mask; the hollow, empty space behind the eyes, inside the mouth. I faced my demon, and there was nothing there.

In a fit of sudden rage, I struck out, my arm catching it on the side of what should have been a head. But the cloth crumpled beneath my blow, the mask fell, and the figure collapsed into a heap. Inside was a simple wooden stick, once propping the thing up, but now fallen to the ground and lying motionless.

I went home quickly, my eyes downcast and furtive, and went to bed. I only once looked out of my window at the street below.

I don’t think it’s going to stop. Last night was the worst yet. I knew they were coming, but how do you prepare for something like that? The first was there in the audience before I even set foot on the stage. By my second entrance, there were five that I could count. And when I began my monologue, the whole auditorium was full of masks.

All the world’s a stage, and it was empty - my only company, the mocking grotesques of pantomimed humanity. The mewling infant, the schoolboy, the lover, the soldier, the judge, each eliciting such a roar of nothing from them it took my breath away.

Perhaps I should have stopped: fled the stage, quit acting entirely. But it was like a lonely avalanche, and it flowed out of me in a wave. And I reached oblivion. An absence of applause that nearly deafened me. Sans everything.

After the show, David came up to me. He wore his best director’s smile, and made as to shake my hand. His mouth moved telling me how much this performance had meant to him, how right the energy had been, and how whatever I had tapped into within myself, I should reach for it again at the next performance.

I tried to listen, to nod, but his eyes were hollow, and I knew that he wasn’t really there.

I have another performance tonight. In less than four hours, I will be on that stage again, speaking those empty lines to emptier ears.

I could run, of course, but I won’t. Where would I run to? All the world’s a stage, and I can’t escape my monologue.

MARTIN
Statement ends.

(exhale) That wasn’t so bad… (inhale) I’m… not sure there is anything to say about this one. John’s got us looking into anything that might involve theatres or the circus, but to be honest, I don’t think this is really what he’s looking for. The strangers here seem… er, different, I guess? It doesn’t have any clowns, or dancing, or… skin.

I wanted to ask Tim about it, but he hasn’t been around much the last week or so. Says he’s working on something, which is… I mean, it could be fine? I guess? He’s just… quite… intense at the moment… He - scares me sometimes.

Truth be told, none of us are doing great, but it’s actually Melanie who seems - I don’t know, something’s happened, I think. Her work’s been kind of… off lately, and any time I talk to her, she just finds some reason to leave. I asked her to look into what happened to Adonis Biros, the actor from the statement, and she hasn’t bothered, as far as I can tell.

John called. He’s in America now, wanted her to help with something, but I had to make an excuse for her. He, he doesn’t need that kind of thing on his mind right now…

I just hope he gets back soon.

…You know, saying it out loud, I, I think I’m actually really worried about Melanie. I - (sigh) you know what, Basira knows her better than. I’ve (laugh) been too awkward to ask, but I need to. I really think I need to -

[CHAIR SCRAPES]
[DOOR OPENS AND MARTIN STEPS OUT]
MARTIN
(calling out in the hall) Basira?

…Melanie?

…Tim…?

[HIGH-PITCHED, SQUEALING STATIC BEGINS]
[DOOR CLOSES AS MARTIN RETURNS]
PETER
Martin, isn’t it?

MARTIN
(gasp) D-don’t move! And, don’t you come any closer, okay?! I’ve got a, I’ve got a knife!

PETER
Do you? That would seem wildly out-of-character, from what I’ve been told.

MARTIN
Okay, but - okay, stay back!

PETER
Please, Martin, I’m not going to hurt you. I just thought we might have a chat.

Alone.

MARTIN
Oh. You’re… one of them, aren’t you? A, a Lukas.

PETER
Yes, that’s - Peter, pleased to meet you! Now, how did you know that?

MARTIN
I, I was just, reading? John left some notes, and -

PETER
I see. I’m sorry to have disturbed you.

It’s one of Elias’s little jokes.

MARTIN
I don’t - what?!

PETER
Did he suggest you record a statement today? One that mentioned me?

MARTIN
Yeah? Sort of - I mean, you know, not you specifically, but -

PETER
I have a meeting with him today. He suggested it. I’m sure he’s watching from his office, grinning from ear to ear.

MARTIN
I… don’t…

PETER
I almost thought he genuinely wanted me to meet the team. Ah, well.

MARTIN
I’m really sorry - I-I don’t actually - ahaha -

PETER
Do I scare you, Martin?

MARTIN
Yes!

PETER
Hmm. Probably for the best. And what’s Elias like to work for? Aside from orchestrating unsettling encounters? (laugh)

MARTIN
That’s… that’s a lot of it, to be honest.

PETER
And that’s not something you look for in an employer, I assume?

MARTIN
Well, he’s… I mean, you just… you’ve just said he’s watching us.

PETER
Almost certainly.

How is he as a boss?

MARTIN
Fine, I guess? I mean, not so much with the manipulation, and… sometimes… the murder?

PETER
Oh! That doesn’t sound like the Elias I know. He killed people himself?

MARTIN
I mean I wasn’t, I wasn’t there, but that’s what he said? And I did see the body. Bodies.

PETER
Elias Bouchard, getting his hands dirty… ah, well. Must be the end times.

MARTIN
Don’t…

PETER
So, your advice would be less murder?

MARTIN
I… suppose!?

PETER
No, no, it’s a good observation, I thank you for it.

MARTIN
You’re wel…come…

PETER
Well, I’m sure I’ve disturbed you quite enough for one day. Martin, I have a meeting to get to and a few things to tell Elias to his face about wasting both our time. Be seeing you! As it were.

[DOOR OPENS]
[SQUEALING STATIC FADES OUT]
MARTIN
Y-yeah! Bye?

[DOOR CLOSES]
MARTIN
…what?!

BASIRA
Did you call me?

MARTIN
Yeah! Um… did you see anyone?

BASIRA
When?

MARTIN
Out there, just now?

BASIRA
Um, no…?

MARTIN
No?

BASIRA
No.

MARTIN
(sigh) That figures.

BASIRA
So, did you need anything, or…?

MARTIN
Does the name Peter Lukas mean anything to you?

BASIRA
Oh! Yes, actually. I’ve been reading a bunch of old statements, he’s that creepy old boat captain, right? From the family Elias doesn’t want us bothering.

MARTIN
Yeah, well, apparently that warning doesn’t go both ways.

BASIRA
He was here?

MARTIN
Yeah. I, I mean, I think, I think so…?

BASIRA
Was he… woOoOo?

MARTIN
I mean, a bit, yeah.

BASIRA
Oh. Oh, dear.

MARTIN
Mmmmaybe? I don’t know, honestly, he was just a bit… weeeeird.

BASIRA
Yeah. Is that why you wanted me?

MARTIN
Oh, no, like - you busy?

BASIRA
A bit. I was reading through a bunch of stuff about the Church of the Divine Host…?

[AS BASIRA SPEAKS, MARTIN CONTINUOUSLY MAKES FRUSTRATED LITTLE NOISES IN AN EFFORT TO INDICATE THAT HE DOES NOT WANT TO DISCUSS THIS RIGHT NOW]
Did you look into that statement about the chapel in Hither Green? Because apparently, right around that time, there was a full solar eclipse going on in - guess where…?

MARTIN
I don’t know.

BASIRA
Ny-Ålesund! And when Natalie Ennis talked about it being 300 years ago - well! How much do you know about the relationship between Edmond Halley and John Flamsteed?

MARTIN
What - Halley like the comet?

BASIRA
Exactly.

MARTIN
Look, Basira, that’s really interesting but that’s not why - uh, uh, you’re close to Melanie, right?

BASIRA
Um, I guess so? Closer than anyone here, I think.

MARTIN
Is she, she doing okay?

BASIRA
Why? Did she… say something?

MARTIN
No… no, it’s just her work’s been… look, she’s always been quite, you know, conscientious, but then recently, everything’s -

BASIRA
Okay, look. I don’t know what the situation is, she won’t tell me, but she’s not doing well. We were meant to go for a drink last week, but… I think it has something to do Elias.

MARTIN
Elias. Oh, god…

BASIRA
Yeah.

MARTIN
Well, well, maybe we can - what?

Oh. Right.

[CLICK; MARTIN SWITCHES OFF THE TAPE RECORDER]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Well?

TREVOR
She said you could turn it on. Didn’t say anything about talking.

ARCHIVIST
Look, we, we’re on the same side -

JULIA
If you’re telling the truth.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I don’t know what proof I can give you.

JULIA
Uh, well, if you’re right about it, it won’t be long until Officer Mustermann over here is able to talk again. That should be illuminating.

TREVOR
He’s almost got his lungs again! If you can call them lungs.

JULIA
Eh, as long as they can push air, they’ll do.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, and, if you don’t like what he has to say…?

JULIA
Then this cabin is a long way away from anything that can hear you.

[JULIA AND TREVOR LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
And, and, and if I run?

TREVOR
I’m very much hoping that you do.

[JULIA AND TREVOR LAUGH AGAIN]
ARCHIVIST
I read your statement, you know, you, you don’t kill people. Only monsters.

TREVOR
The line gets blurrier every day.

ARCHIVIST
What about you, Julia? Following in your dad’s footsteps?

JULIA
It’s a legacy I’ve learned to be proud of. (heh) There are people who’d sell us all out to things you can’t even imagine. I’m happy doing what it takes to stop that.

ARCHIVIST
Murder?

JULIA
Why not? Everything dies. You think if you walk out of this cabin, you just keep going ? Something gets you, even if it’s just time.

Mostly, though life on this planet ends violently. It’s the most natural thing in the world; and sometimes, it makes the world a better place.

ARCHIVIST
And… when something comes for you?

JULIA
Mh. Then I die.

ARCHIVIST
That, that doesn’t… scare you?

JULIA
Every second.

[SOUND OF “OFFICERMUSTERMANN” BREATHING THROUGH PARTIALLY-REGROWN LUNGS]
ARCHIVIST
Can, can we keep that somewhere else…?

TREVOR
I want it where I can see it.

ARCHIVIST
And when you’re satisfied that I’m not trying to harm you?

TREVOR
If you’re right about that ritual, I guess, you talk to Gerard.

ARCHIVIST
You said he was dead…

JULIA
(spooky voice) He is.

TREVOR
(laugh)

ARCHIVIST
…r-right…

So we just… wait.

JULIA
That’s the plan.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

…

[FURTHER LUNG-REGROWTH SOUNDS]
ARCHIVIST
Look - perhaps if, all we can do is listen to this… r-regrowing itself, may I suggest a way to pass the time?

JULIA
Sure. You want our story?

TREVOR
Gave you folks plenty already.

ARCHIVIST
I, I mean, yes… but the situation has changed quite a bit…? Last I heard, you were dying of lung cancer.

TREVOR
I was.

ARCHIVIST
And now…?

TREVOR
I’m not. (heh)

ARCHIVIST
And that doesn’t strike you as… odd.

TREVOR
Not much I see these days isn’t “odd” somehow or other. Not gonna turn my nose up at one bit of it worked out well for me. I hunt monsters; my lungs don’t kill me. Seems like a fair trade. No big job, is it.

ARCHIVIST
Wh-what about you, Julia? Care, care to make a statement? Maybe about how you met Trevor?

JULIA
Sure, why not.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

JULIA
It’s not like you or your tape recorder get to leave here without us.

ARCHIVIST
(clears throat) Statement of Julia Montauk, regarding her initial encounter with the hunter, Trevor Herbert.

Uh, when did this happen?

JULIA
About six years ago?

TREVOR
Seven! 2010.

JULIA
Sure. Summer 2010.

ARCHIVIST
Statement taken direct from subject June 29th, 2017.

Statement begins.

JULIA (STATEMENT)
I tried to live a normal life. I really did. I took jobs working in the backroom of offices where I wouldn’t need to meet anyone. I had boyfriends who promised they didn’t care. I burned through half a dozen counselors. None of it worked.

You see, my father’s always remained one of the darlings of the true crime community. Articles, documentaries, grisly retrospectives: wherever I ended up, somehow it would always worm its way into my life. One of my co-workers or new friends would stumble across a profile of my father, and that would be that. Every time I ended up in a relationship, it was only a matter of time before I caught them on some true crime blog, or spotted a profile of my father in their search history.

Sometimes, I tried to lie about it, so there was no relation, but the damage was done. They’d get distant, throw me nervous glances when they didn’t think I’d notice. Or worse, they started to look at me like I was some sort of prize, some small claim to fame: the serial killer’s daughter.

I suppose I could have changed my name. Um, something always stopped me though: it was the only connection I still had to my dad, and even if it did keep ruining my life, I couldn’t bring myself to lose it.

The counselors and the therapists were more understanding… but even they couldn’t quite keep the eager quiver out of their voice when I started talking about the murders. It felt like every couple of years, I was having to start my life over from scratch.

What is it, do you think, that makes people so obsessed with horrific things happening to other people? Even now, after all I’ve done, I can’t quite figure out what it is that makes people treat actual atrocities like cheap entertainment.

Maybe we’re all just broken inside, unable to really grasp the difference between fictional people, and people we just don’t know. They’re all just abstract ideas we’re happy to have suffer for our enjoyment.

Or… maybe the fact it really happened is exactly the point, adding the awful spice of reality to people’s morbid fantasies.

When I think of the lurid joy some people would feel if I were caught - the serial killer’s daughter taking over the family business - it makes me sick. But even back then, with my hands unbloodied, that collective obsession with brutality chased me throughout my life.

In the summer of 2010, I made another attempt to outrun my father’s legacy, and moved up to Manchester to take a new job. It was night shift work, security and maintenance for an old office building, occupied by a handful of failing companies trying to save money on floor space.

I liked it because I didn’t really have to talk to anyone. I was on the desk alone, and generally anyone working there late enough to cross paths with me wasn’t in a talking mood.

There was another reason that I chose to work nights. If you read my statement, then I’m sure it will come as no surprise that for most of my life, I’ve had a pretty significant fear of the dark. I used to lie awake at night… listening, straining my ears for the noise of movement, or that dreadful growl coming out of the dark.

It was one of my better counselors that suggested I try working nights as a way to address it. And it worked. For the most part. It made the darkness mundane, just another aspect of my everyday life to be dealt with, and kept me within the comforting glow of lamps and light bulbs basically all the time. It also let me sleep during the day, when the faintest hint of sunlight that crept around the edges of my thick bedroom curtains made me feel safe enough to relax. It made dating even harder, of course, but by that point I’d mostly given up trying. It wasn’t a perfect solution, by any means, but it helped. To start with, at least.

I never really worried about keeping track of the companies that kept offices in my building. It seemed like that came and went pretty regularly. Sometimes a start-up would make it big, but usually it was the inevitable bankruptcy that moved them out.

All except DKN Systems. I never really figured out what it was they were meant to be doing. Something full of meaningless buzzwords, like “business networks” or “media solutions.” Thinking about it, it might actually have been “business media network solutions.” Point is, there didn’t seem to be anything suspicious about them. At least not at first.

I knew a bit more about them than the other people renting space, since they seemed to do a lot of work after dark, and there were a handful of their staff I knew on sight. I mean, I assumed they also did a lot of work in the daytime that I just wasn’t seeing. So it didn’t seem particularly weird. Just another small business burning the candle everywhere they could to stay afloat.

But even if the company itself didn’t seem weird, the people who worked for it really did. I remember there were four of them normally around, and at one point I thought it must have been a family thing, because I got it in my head that they were related. I don’t know why - they didn’t even look that similar - but there was just something about their faces. It was the eyes, I think. It looked like they all had irises so dark that they almost seemed completely black.

And they dressed the same. Not like a uniform, but they all wore black trousers, a dark blue shirt, and a brown leather belt. They also wore soft-soled black canvas shoes, which were almost completely silent when walking down the carpeted halls of the building.

It made them even more unsettling, quietly wandering the corridors, never quite looking where they were going, like their attention was focused on something you just couldn’t see.

There was only one of them that ever spoke, at least to me: a young guy called Vardhan Darvish. He seemed to be the manager, at least as much as there was any clear structure. And unlike his colleagues, he seemed happy, almost eager, to talk.

I asked him about it once, and he laughingly told me that his co-workers didn’t sign up for the quality of conversation. He’d chat with me about my job and the latest headline - which he always had a strong opinion about. We never discussed any details of his life, though, or his job. He generally came over to let me know about a blown light bulb somewhere in the building, and then stick around for a bit of conversation.

I once jokingly suggested he must be breaking the lights himself for an excuse to talk to me. And he laughed, but then got kind of quiet, and didn’t stick around to talk.

At the time, I assumed my awkward flirting had made it weird… but unfortunately not! (laugh)

TREVOR (STATEMENT)
Bulbs were breaking because of what they were doing around the offices.

I’d been tracking Darvish for a good few weeks by then. There’d been a couple of homeless I knew gone missing around Parrs Wood, where I were keeping back then. Now, usually I wouldn’t pay much mind - was the summer, after all - but there were a couple of ladies gone. So I checked in with shelters, and a worker that dealt with them, but no one had the first clue. I knew Morris had at least a kid with a woman down in Moss Side, so he wouldn’t’ve skipped down - but she hadn’t seen him neither.

My first thought were vampires, as they like to go after rough sleepers. But I knew, by then, there were other horrors kicking around - not to mention your mundane murderers.

Didn’t matter to me, of course! Not by then. I had a hunt on, and I was going to see it through. It weren’t long after I went down to see you folk, so I was still convinced I were on the way out. And caution weren’t something I cared for. (laugh)

Don’t recall exactly how Darvish got on my radar. Someone had seen something that sent me somewhere that led me to him, I don’t, I don’t know. Point is, soon as I saw him, I knew he were there one I were after. There was a smell to him: something dark and sick, rolling off him in waves. Sure, he didn’t smell like a vampire, but he smelt like something that weren’t meant to be in this world. So, I reckoned I best help him out of it.

Took to following him for a couple of days. Didn’t know exactly what he was, or what he wanted, so I weren’t keen to charge right in. He seemed normal at first, mind. Happy enough in the sun (heh), though he worked nights. That’s how I first saw him. Didn’t spot me - or if he did, he never paid me no mind. They never do.

Third night, I spotted him at work, taking a delivery. It were a big truck for some company called “Outer Bay.” I tried to follow them up since, but didn’t find much. Then again, maybe I didn’t know what I were looking for - I mean, to anyone else, the box they were unloading would have looked like nothing much.

But if there’s one thing I know, it’s what a box looks like when it’s got someone inside.

There’s a certain shape it tends to be, and the folk carrying it have to take a second to manage its shifting weight. Might have looked like a big old flight case, but as soon as I saw it, I was certain there was somebody inside. What I didn’t know was: alive? Or dead?

JULIA (STATEMENT)
Looking back, I feel like an idiot. I was watching them unload that same case. It was policy to have whoever was working security present for deliveries. Something about insurance. Thinking about it (sigh), I even noticed Trevor lurking past the fence - though I didn’t give much thought to just another tramp.

[TREVOR LAUGHS]
I had no idea what they had in the box, though. They told me it was new computer service, and I didn’t have any reason not to believe them. They’d had plenty of similar deliveries before.

Vardhan was there, and we talked for a while. He wanted to discuss the tennis, I think, but I’ve never really followed sport. He didn’t seem suspicious or weird, and I had no reason to think that this was anything other than a late delivery of normal computer parts.

They took the case up to their offices, and I returned to my desk with a fresh cup of coffee, and a plan to dig him for the night with some episodes of an old radio show I was working my way through. The plan went pretty smooth for an hour or two, with the exception of a couple of DKN employees silently shuffling past at unnerving moments.

Then I happened to glance up at one of the video feeds, and saw that the tramp I saw earlier had managed to sneak inside the building.

TREVOR (STATEMENT)
(snort) It weren’t as hard as all that! Didn’t even need to break a window or nothing - just waited until the last of the office weirdos were heading back inside. They were slow enough, it were pretty simple to tail them through before the door swung shut.

Once in, I had to look for cameras, because I knew there were a security guard. I’d seen her when they were unloading, and were pretty sure I could take her out, if I needed to -

JULIA
(laugh) In your dreams, old man.

TREVOR (STATEMENT)
- but I didn’t want it to come to that!

I tried to stay out of sight, but she must have spotted me, because soon enough I could hear her coming my way. I managed to duck into a stairwell and head up towards the fourth floor, where the front of the building said Darvish’s company was.

I could hear her behind me, though, so I ducked out a floor early and nipped inside a cleaning cupboard to wait her out.

JULIA (STATEMENT)
I went all the way to the fourth floor, not realizing that this git wasn’t up there. The corridor light was out, and I made a note to replace it later as I turned on my torch.

It was very quiet; far quieter than I would have expected for a company installing new equipment. I took a moment to get my bearings, and there was no sound at all. Utter silence, except for the faintest “drip, drip, drip” coming from somewhere up ahead. I called out, first for the trespasser, then for Vardhan, then for anybody who might be up there. But there was no answer.

My torch beam fell on the door labeled “DKN Systems.” It stood open, unmoving, with no light at all coming from inside. As my light crossed the doorframe, I could see the windows had been covered with thick wooden boards, and painted a dark matte black.

In the corner of my mind, I could feel panic starting to claw its way up, as the darkness started to press in on me. I called out again, but there was still no reply.

I wanted to turn around and run back to the light, but not enough. Not as much as I wanted to overcome my fear.

I slowly headed inside, calling out every few steps to make sure anyone who might be in there knew I was with security.

Inside, the rooms were bare. Completely empty. There was no sign they’d ever been used to run a business, and the only sign that I wasn’t the first person to set foot in there was the complete absence of dust or dirt. I checked another room, but it was exactly the same. The same with the third I checked, and the fourth.

Then I opened a normal-looking wooden door near the back. And I froze, once again on the threshold of something that didn’t make sense.

In front of me was what should have been a normal meeting room, but it was far from that. The floor was covered in water, pitch-black and utterly still. I knew in my mind it couldn’t be more than a few millimeters deep - it didn’t even spread past the doorway when I opened it - but as my torch light reflected off the surface, it seemed to me like it was much, much deeper.

In the center of the room was a plain wood and metal table, with a man lying on top of it. I had never seen him before. He lay motionless, and I could make out a thin, dark trickle of liquid flowing from his mouth and eyes over his face and dripping down the table legs into the dark water.

Three figures stood around him. The other workers from the office. Each was stood on a small square platform a few inches off the floor, facing directly towards the central table, arms outstretched and mouths wide as though they were screaming. They still made absolutely no sound.

I don’t know how long I was frozen there, staring at the scene in front of me. Nothing was right about what I was seeing. I started to scream at them, shouted to stop whatever they were doing or I’d call the police. They didn’t seem even remotely aware of me.

Finally, I decided I was going to leave - to make the call - but not before I got the man on the table out of there. He clearly needed help, and whatever these silent screamers were doing to him wasn’t helping.

I told them. I announced what I was about to do, but still got no response. So I stepped into the room and over to the table.

As soon as my foot hit the water, I fell into it completely. It was colder than anything I had ever experienced, and the torch slipped from my hand as my vision immediately went dark.

I tried to orientate myself, to find which way was up, and I saw a faint pinprick of light as my torch sank away from me, down and down and down into the icy black water.

I started to panic then, with the lightless deep pressing in on me, eager to take me away. I was absolutely sure that in a few moments there would be no surface left. Just dark, still water forever.

TREVOR (STATEMENT)
Luckily, I’d been watching a while.

I saw her go down. Didn’t have a clue what were going on - still don’t - but I were quick enough to get there and reach me arm into the water before she were too far gone.

It were bloody cold. Couldn’t see anything, obviously. I had my own light, but it just bounced off the surface. I could feel the back of her jacket down there, though, and I made a grab for it.

Now, I’m not as strong as I was, maybe, but I held on and pulled. Wasn’t enough to get her out. Something in there didn’t want to let her go. But I got her high enough that her arm broke the surface. She flailed a second, but got hold of the doorframe and started to pull herself out.

Took her a while, but she were almost there when I heard something moving behind us. Turned around to see Darvish stood there. And he did not look happy.

I were already holding the knife. I could smell him, so thick it tasted like rancid treacle. And whatever he was shouting was quieting the blood in my ears. It was gonna be good.

I got him once across the chest through his shirt, but he were a lot faster than I gave him credit for. He cracked me once hard across the face. I didn’t go down, but I didn’t get him with the blade again before he slammed his elbow to me gut.

That time I did go down, and I dropped to the floor. He were on top of me, hands around me throat, and I thought that was it - no waiting for the cancer. I’m not gonna lie, I was scared.

JULIA
I could still feel that dark water sticking to me, tugging at me, pleading me to fall back into it.

I pushed it from my mind, and I could just about make out the homeless man that saved me. He was struggling with someone, his torch fallen to the ground next to an old pocketknife. I grabbed the light and pointed it at them. Vardhan was on top of him, hands around the old man’s throat.

I saw those eyes properly, and for the first time I realized that Vardhan’s irises weren’t dark. It was just that the pupils were so wide that they swallowed them completely.

That wasn’t what did it, though. That wasn’t what made me pick up the struggling tramp’s pocket knife and plunge it in again and again into Vardhan Darvish’s throat.

No. What did that was the tattoo. Huge and dark on the chest beneath his rib shirt. The closed-eye sigil there was as familiar to me as the nightmares of my mother. I have never felt rage like I did then, and I have never felt anything as wonderful as the satisfaction of ending his life.

There was a shiver in the air as the floor behind me dried in an instant, and the three silent screamers dropped down dead. Well, I suppose they might have just been unconscious when they fell. But they were definitely dead by the time we left. The man on the table had never been alive to begin with.

TREVOR
I just knew, then.

I never even had to explain anything to her. She just gave me back the knife and we left together.

Wasn’t any question as to who I was or what I was doing.

We just clicked.

JULIA
Mm-hm. And we’ve been hunting together going on seven years now.

TREVOR
She ain’t too bad at it.

JULIA
You’re starting to slow down a bit, though.

TREVOR
(laugh) It’s just the lack of respect that gets me.

JULIA
And he’s going a bit senile, which is a shame.

TREVOR
Least I’m not so soft I need a featherbed.

JULIA
Beds are a good thing, old man! And I keep telling you - so are baths.

TREVOR
You see what I gotta put up with, Mr. Sims?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, um… (nervous laugh) Yeah… it’s, uh… it’s… what do you do for money?

JULIA
(annoyed) Sorry?

ARCHIVIST
I, I just, I-I doubt roaming around killing things pays all that well, What do you do to support yourselves?

JULIA
(exhale) Oh, I don’t know, we find ways. When you’re out here, the odd bit of robbery or trespass doesn’t really faze you.

ARCHIVIST
And, uh, why America?

[RESIGNED SIGHS, LAUGHTER]
TREVOR
Heard tell there were a wolfman.

[JULIA LAUGHS AT HIM]
Old Davey - he’s down in Plymouth - swore blind his brother had seen one on the Pacific Crest trail -

JULIA
I told Trevor he was a liar - but here we are anyway! Have been for a couple of years.

TREVOR
Hey, now, no wolfman, sure, but they’re’ve been plenty out here that needs killing!

JULIA
(annoyed sigh) True enough. Plus, it’s hard to leave. We’re not exactly here legally, and trying to get a flight home would get us noticed by authorities we’d rather avoid.

TREVOR
I keep telling her we could hop a boat!

JULIA
And I tell him I’d rather stay hunting here than trap myself on a boat for two weeks.

ARCHIVIST
…s-so, what have you -

[MUSTERMANN WHEEZES AND STRUGGLES TO SPEAK]
MUSTERMANN
Sh-sh-shut uuuuuup…

TREVOR
Oh-ho, hey! Look who’s talking!

[JULIA LAUGHS]
MUSTERMANN
(raspily, gasping) You could have at least chopped my ears off, too. You people just won’t shut up! Hhhhow am I supposed to get the lungs lined up right, when I can’t even con-concentrate…

JULIA
I’m fit to chop them off again if you need the practice.

MUSTERMANN
(gasping) Dooooo it! You’re the ones who want to talk.

ARCHIVIST
Why were you looking for me?

MUSTERMANN
(gasping) Wh-why do you think? Out here, exposed and unaware, on your own. At least I thought so. Thought it was a, a good chance to get you home, and get you ready for the dance.

JULIA
Is this that “Unknowing” dance?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, yeah… o-o-okay, uh, Mustermann, or whatever your name is -

MUSTERMANN
Just turn it off. You got more questions, then you turn that thing off!

ARCHIVIST
I don’t think you’re in any position to make demands.

MUSTERMANN
Maybe not, but are you sure you know what’s listening in?

ARCHIVIST
Do you?

MUSTERMANN
No. But I don’t like it.

TREVOR
What’s he mean, “listening in?”?

ARCHIVIST
What - no, I, I, I’m not -

JULIA
I knew this was a bad idea. Turn it off.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, no, no, it’s fine, it’s -

JULIA
Turn. It. Off.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Martin Blackwood, archival assistant at the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 0121403. Statement of Alexia Crawley, given March 14th, 2012.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
It’s hard to put my relationship with Dexter Banks into words. It was a complicated thing, built on well over a decade of disdain and interdependence. In many ways I was closer to him than his wife - not that I ever touched the odious little freak. And while those film obsessives that insist I basically directed all his films do us both a disservice, it is true that without me he would never have reached the fame and high regard he enjoys. Enjoyed.

“Cinematographer.” Such an ornate term, yet still so vague. I often wonder if that’s to blame for how overlooked we are as a profession. Or even worse, that dry title, “Director of Photography.” But we are the true artists. A director may quite literally call the shots, but it is the cinematographer that makes them. We choose the angles, the lighting, pretty much everything that you see on the screen. The camera is a brush, and we are the hand, the arm, the eye. The director’s basically just the mouth, making pointless noise while the hand does the actual work. Almost every famous director that you know who has a distinctive visual style has simply managed to lock down a talented DoP.

I first worked with Dexter back in 1997, working as a cinematographer on Red Ronin. It feels odd to say now, but I was genuinely excited to work with him at the time. I’d seen some of his earlier work - Wasteland 7, Dolores, maybe a couple of shorts - and I remember thinking how refreshing it was going to be working with a director who really got film. Who was steeped in that history, and drew inspiration from forgotten corners of the medium. Even some corners that should have stayed forgotten.

Unfortunately, that turned out to be the only thing he understood. You see, Dexter Banks lived movies. As far as I could tell, every single aspect of his life had revolved around them. His dad had owned a small cinema near Fairfax Avenue, and as a teenager he’d bounced between working there and a small rental store that specialized in foreign films - specifically Italian horror movies and East Asian martial arts. I never met anyone who knew as much about films, and as little about anything else.

Working with him, it soon became clear that all he was interested in doing was recreating things he had seen. Taking scenes and music that he loved from those old, obscure corners of cinema and then constructing whatever patchwork narrative would allow him to shoot his own versions of them. Whatever dialogue he didn’t repurpose and had to write himself was stilted and slow. Trying to mirror the stylization that surrounded it, but failing utterly. I once mentioned to him the idea of working with a writer. I didn’t do it again.

Red Ronin, for instance, was based on a Japanese film from the early 70s called Blade of the Avenger. It hit on the same dynamics and scenes as the original, but was set in modern-day Arizona following a nihilistic ex-marine in the fictional town of Funnel. It wasn’t strictly a remake, though. Because Dexter would constantly call me into the screening room to show me some other samurai or Western that I’d never heard of, before jumping up at the appropriate scene and shouting, “that was it, we do that.”

And I did. I’m very good at my job. I’ve been doing it almost 30 years now - five at the BBC before crossing the Atlantic - and I know exactly what I’m doing. Turns out that I have a talent for capturing the feeling of older movies, mirroring them while still keeping the shots fresh. Who cares if it bored me to creative tears - it was exactly the sort of bull that critics loved, and Red Ronin was the first of Dexter’s films to get an Oscar nomination. Alhough it ended up losing out to The English Patient. Not really surprising, it was too genre for the Academy anyway.

I didn’t realize it, but by that point I was already locked in with Dexter. I’d held some ambitions about directing myself one day, but it soon became obvious that that wasn’t going to happen. Maybe if I’d got a feature under my belt before I was outed as trans, it might have been different, but as it was, that revelation burned too many bridges. And when the dust had settled, it was made abundantly clear to me that I was never going to get a movie of my own, and it was either cinematography, or nothing.

So I stayed. I was in a bad place for the next couple years, and blindly accepted the DoP position on two more of Dexter’s films: Hell’s Company and Leroy Slate. Both were big hits, and by the time I properly felt myself again, I had ended up with my career so tied up in Dexter’s that chasing other gigs wasn’t really an option. I still have no idea how intentional it was on his part, but he was definitely aware that it was my work that elevated his films above simple homage. His periodic bouts of petty jealousy and snide bitterness had made that abundantly clear. Five years and three movies in, it was clear that we needed each other almost as much as we hated each other.

I don’t know when he first mentioned his spider film. He didn’t bubble out into a full obsession until two years ago, but I know he talked about it plenty before that. Whenever arguments over a project would last late into the night, and if he was very drunk, he’d get kind of quiet, and then he’d ask me, yet again, if I’d ever seen Kumo Ga Tabeteiru.

I think that was the name, anyway - something like that. He was normally slurring quite badly when he said it. He thought it translated to “The Spiders That Devour,” but a Japanese friend once told me it was actually closer to just “spiders are eating.”

According to Dexter, Kumo was an old tokusatsu movie, which he believed had come out sometime in the mid-to-late-60s. It was about a spider - just the one, despite the title - that grew to a colossal size and terrorized a small unnamed island off the coast of Kagoshima. What struck him about it, though, was the utter absence of anything resembling a hero or protagonist. No one fought against the monster. And although there were vignettes in the lives of those under the spider’s shadow, they all ended the exact same way: with the character in question marching slowly and calmly into its waiting jaws.

Whenever Dexter described this, his eyes would widen and he’d start trying to recreate the sound that they made as they were eaten. He always claimed he wasn’t doing it right, but the noises he ended up making were unsettling enough.

As far as either of us could determine, the film never existed. At least, not in any form that left a traceable record. Dexter had followed it up in a lot more detail than I had ever bothered to, and had checked with collectors of obscure film paraphernalia and long-defunct Japanese production studios. He actually showed a pretty surprising aptitude for the language. But it was just dead end after dead end. I ended up watching half a dozen different giant spider movies with him over our time together, and none of them were right. He’d just watch, muttering under his breath “no, no, no,” and chewing on the back of his thumb.

It wasn’t something I ever really minded. Of all the many and varied quirks of Dexter Banks, his minor obsession with a Japanese spider movie that may or may not have ever existed was one of the least unpleasant. At least, until I got the call about his final project. He told me over the phone that he was producing a new film, that he was going to be his masterpiece. Then he started to describe it, and I don’t know how much of what I felt was deja vu, and how much was just dread.

I asked if he had found a copy of the film, or the script, but he just laughed. “Better,” he said. “I found the book it was based on.”

Then he hung up, and I was left sitting there, feeling this gnawing apprehension that I just couldn’t place. I realize what had disturbed me later. It was such a small thing, but it really nagged at me. It was the idea that Dexter would ever describe a book as better than a film. That sounds like I’m insulting him, but you need to know him to understand. Film was everything to him. Other media might as well not have existed.

Regardless, he went into production. He called it “Widow’s Weave,” and while the script pages he brought were apparently based on this unnamed book of his, the shots were drawn from his memories of the first film version. Assuming it existed anywhere outside of his head, of course. Part of me secretly assumed Dexter had simply dreamed the movie up and this book was… eh, it didn’t matter. Not really. There wasn’t any question about whether or not I was working on it. It was a Dexter Banks film! And my name was basically on the credits already.

The crew were mostly regulars he’d worked with before, but weirdly for him, he seems to take almost no interest in casting at all. He asked Debbie Connor, our casting director, to get him as many no-name, untested hopefuls as the script needed. Bear in mind that at this point, any A-lister would have killed to be in a Dexter Banks picture. But he didn’t care. For all he kept telling me about how this was his dream project that he was electrified to finally be making, he seemed to have almost entirely checked out of the process of actually making it.

There was one exception to this. He claimed to be working with Neil Lagorio to make the spider. Now, you might never have heard his name before, but I guarantee you you’ll have seen his work. From the mid-70s right into CGI, Lagorio was the name in practical creature effects. Suit work, stop-motion, animatronics - whatever the method, he was the master. If you’ve watched any genre films at all from before 2005, there’s basically no chance you haven’t seen one of his creatures.

His early work was strictly horror, but in his prime he worked on basically any blockbuster that used practical effects for monsters or aliens. I’d had the pleasure of working with him way back in 1989 on Orbit, a medium-budget sci-fi vehicle for some aging action star. Neil was working on a 12-foot-tall animatronic robot that featured heavily in the climax. The picture was, unsurprisingly, a flop, but I still remember his work. How he brought a lump of wood and steel to life, the huge intricate mechanisms that allowed his crew to puppet it into motion that was so natural you could forget that the back of it was completely hollow.

Out of all of the odd changes with Dexter’s behavior, his excitement over working with Neil Lagorio was the one thing that I shared with him. Not that I got a chance to do anything with that excitement. Once production started, Dexter became secretive and jumpy. He told us he’d set up a workshop for Lagorio and his team in one of the larger empty spaces on the lot. But no one except him was to go inside, or make any contact with the practical effects department.

It was odd, but everyone knew better than to argue. Once Dexter had an idea in his head, he would throw you off the set for trying to change it. When it really needed to happen, people generally looked to me to do so, since I was one they considered un-fireable. And this time, I did, saying that I’d worked with Neil before, and would love a chance to catch up with him. Dexter curtly explained that Neil had become reclusive in his retirement, and had only agreed to work on this picture on condition of absolute privacy. I didn’t push the issue. It didn’t seem like the battle to waste my energy on.

And there were certainly plenty more battles once shooting began. If you’re wondering how easy it is to recreate shots that only exist in the hazy memory of an eccentric, or to frame scenes when you only get the typo-riddled script the morning before, I can tell you: not easy. Not easy at all. And Dexter’s constant outbursts didn’t help. Throwing people off the set over the smallest imagined offenses, or throwing away a whole day’s shoot because “it just didn’t feel right.” We were burning through money and goodwill faster than I had ever seen, even on the most slapdash of his earlier projects.

The cast really impressed me, though. Most of them were fresh out of drama school, with maybe a couple of ads under their belt, and a few older faces who’d clearly spend most of their life hurling themselves at closed doors until now. Most impressive to me, though, was a guy called Brandon Omar. He was playing the closest thing the film had to a protagonist, a homeless ex-Methodist minister who’d found himself on the island by chance, and served as a connecting thread, wandering between the scenes and the vignettes of the inhabitants after each ended with their march to the spider.

Brandon took to the role immediately, with a gravity and a weariness that I don’t think could have been entirely feigned. He was the only one who didn’t seem excited by the movie, and spent his off hours smoking and reading quietly in one of the trailers. It was a shame, because for whatever reason, he also seemed to be the only one that Dexter would listen to. I only saw them talking once or twice, but every time, Dexter would be rapt, nodding at whatever Brandon might have to say.

Of course, I never really had time to think on it. I was finding it an almost impossible task to get even the most basic of shots, with Dexter constantly demanding the whole setup be changed for no reason. Like I said, I’m excellent at my job, but giving him what he wanted from the camerawork relied on him actually knowing it himself. There was a frenzied nervous energy to his instructions, and if I didn’t know any better, I might have even said that he wasn’t just afraid that the shots might not work, he was afraid of the idea.

And so it was, for the first few weeks. Dexter clearly wasn’t sleeping. He had insisted on using old equipment, and avoided digital almost entirely, to the point where several of the crew were using pieces of kit they’d never even seen before. This meant that a work print had to be made manually for the dailies, something he refused to let anyone else do. Once shooting wrapped, he’d be in the editing room for hours, preparing dailies, although they shouldn’t have needed editing at all. And when we watched them, I’d often noticed that certain shots were missing, stuff I was certain that we’d filmed. I brought this up with him once, and he called me a liar to my face.

I only interrupted him when he was preparing dailies once. An actress who was slated to be shooting the next day had taken violently ill. The crew needed his sign-off to change the schedule. No one else dared to go in, so once again it was down to me to head into that tiny room alone.

It was dark inside, lit only by what spilled in through the open doorway. I could hear a sound like turning of an old film reel, but I couldn’t say where from. I stood there, unable to step inside, not because of fear, but because this space inside was threaded all over with film strips. Up and down, one side to the other, wrapping around and through each other. I gingerly reached out and touched one. And as I did, Dexter seemed to emerge from the darkness. At first I thought he was taller than usual, but then I realized that he was suspended ever so slightly by the strips of film, his feet a good couple of inches off the floor.

He was very calm as he asked what I wanted, and when I stutteringly explained the situation, he just nodded and said we should feel free to rearrange however we liked. Then he closed the door, and I left. Trying very hard to convince myself that he had only had two arms.

Shooting continued, but there was a growing awareness throughout the crew that we had still seen nothing from Neil Lagorio. No one had met him on set, or spotted him or his team entering or leaving the workshop where the spider was supposedly being constructed. No one had heard the sound of work being done in there, and the rumor was that Dexter had finally lost it, and the workshop was empty. We had run through all the scenes that could be done without it, and everyone was getting really impatient.

Finally, Dexter announced it was time for the unveiling. For the spider, for kumo, to make its appearance. We were all excited as we assembled outside the workshop, but there was a nervous energy in the air that day. It was about as cold as it ever gets in LA, but the shiver that passed through us when he told us it was time was something else entirely.

Dexter told us the actors would see it first. He gave no reasoning for this, and silenced the outcry from a couple of the crew with a vicious glare. He then gathered up the cast and, with Brandon leading them, took them through a small door in the side of the workshop. And they disappeared inside.

I’ve thought back over those minutes so many times, trying to decide if I’d heard or seen anything that might have explained what happened inside that building. But in the end, I have to admit that I didn’t. Minutes passed, then half an hour, as we waited impatiently for Dexter or the others to return.

It seems like a sick cosmic joke that that was the day the press broke the news of Neil Lagorio’s death. Half an hour after the cast walked into that building, one of the grips stumbled across the news story whilst idly checking his phone. Lagorio had been privately suffering from Parkinson’s for almost a decade, and had been bedridden in his Connecticut home for the last year.

We knew then that, whatever was going on inside that building, it was not Neil Lagorio debuting a new animatronic creation. Once again, all eyes turned to me.

I’m still not entirely sure what I saw on the other side of that door. I probably saw nothing, like the cops who arrived shortly afterwards. The place was entirely empty after all, just as the rumors had always said. But I wouldn’t be here talking to you if I thought that was true, now, would I?

Because I remember that first moment - that instant of looking up when I first entered. I saw it, perfectly interwoven with a hundred cocoons, writhing and dangling, stretching out far above me. And in its center, those black and shining eyes that focused on my entrance. The legs that worked so fast as to be a blur. The fangs that dripped their poison onto Dexter Banks. Then, in a moment, it was all gone - scuttling up and into nowhere, pulling its impossible web behind it.

I never knew how to describe my relationship with Dexter, and I still don’t. How he was complicit, and how much he was simply caught in his own neuroses and fears, I don’t know. I know he didn’t deserve what happened to him.

I found the book, by the way. And I burned it. If I ever track down the man who used to own it, I might just burn him too.

MARTIN
Statement ends.

I think Alexia might be a bit too late for that. I mean, I think it sounds like a Jurgen Leitner book. About spiders. Hm. Good John didn’t have to read this one, anyway. I know he’s not a fan. Although, this one wasn’t too bad, actually! I - yeah. Anyway.

This is, I suppose, one explanation for the disappearance of Dexter Banks, along with almost a hundred cast members, back in 2012. There’s not a lot I can really add that hasn’t been already dissected by a hundred different tabloid magazines and mystery shows. Even the, um, arachnid angle has been covered, as it seems that when we weren’t a lot of help, Alexia Crawley told her full story to the press. She was not treated kindly, and refuses to discuss the events any further. Poor thing.

Yeah, but Basira did manage to get hold of a few things from recent LAPD files that haven’t been released to the public yet. Though she’s a bit cagey as to how she she got them.

Apparently, over the last five years, every February a corpse is found washed up on Redondo Beach. It’ll be a shriveled husk, with all moisture and internal organs apparently removed. These corpses are usually unidentifiable, but the one that washed up last year was confirmed to be Chadwick Frazier, an aspiring actor who went missing in 2012, and whose IMDB page lists a final credit for Widow’s Weave.

Um. Th-that’s it.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
no, that doesn’t make sense! Can he even do that?
BASIRA
I don’t know. I guess so.

MARTIN
So, what, he can just reach into your head and put something in there?!

BASIRA
I don’t know. I guess so.

MARTIN
I mean. Does it even have to be a true thing? Do we, do we know for sure he’s not lying, like, like magically lying?

BASIRA
I don’t know.

MARTIN
Right, right, right. Sorry. I just - it’s a lot to take in, you know.

BASIRA
Mostly for Melanie, yeah.

MARTIN
Oh, of course, yep. Sorry.

BASIRA
Look, I’m not the one you need - [sigh]

We can’t just ignore it.

MARTIN
Well, yeah, but what do we - we didn’t even know that that was something he could do! What if there’s other stuff he could do to us?!

BASIRA
We are not letting him get away with it.

MARTIN
I didn’t say that.

BASIRA
Look, Martin. I know you care. I know you do. But caring isn’t enough. You can’t just stand next to someone with a cup of tea and hope everything’s gonna be all right.

MARTIN
That’s. Not. Fair. You don’t even know me.

BASIRA
Prove it. We need to do something. Because if we just let him -

MARTIN
- oh, h-hi! Hey, hey Melanie, uh, can I get youuuu - a… cup… of… tea?

MELANIE
So, she told you, then?

BASIRA
We need everyone, if we’re gonna have any chance.

MELANIE
Right.

MARTIN
What about Tim?

MELANIE
Tim is…

BASIRA
Elias is watching him too closely.

MELANIE
He’s probably watching me, too.

MARTIN
We could, uh, we could try the tunnels! John says they might help!

MELANIE
Right.

BASIRA
Or maybe… when he’s not paying attention. Distracted, like during your, um, your performance review.

MELANIE
Wait, what do you mean?

MARTIN
Yeah, what?

BASIRA
Well, I was heading out, and Martin, you remember you knocked over that huge stack of papers?

MARTIN
I, I, they shouldn’t have been there in the first place! Besides, I cleaned them up!

BASIRA
But not in the right order. And when I brought them up to Elias yesterday, he asked why they were messed up.

MARTIN
Y… You didn’t tell him it was me…?

BASIRA
That’s not the point, Martin. The point is -

MELANIE
He wasn’t watching you. He was busy.

BASIRA
Yep.

MARTIN
Hang on…

BASIRA
Not here. The tunnels.

MARTIN
Right, right, right.

[PAUSE]
MARTIN
[voice echoing in the tunnels] Melanie, I’m, I’m really sorry you… I’m just sorry.

MELANIE
[voice echoing in the tunnels] Yeah…

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Right, so I just… read it?

JULIA
He’s the last page.

TREVOR
[Snorts] Good luck. I guess.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, you’re not staying to… I dunno, keep an eye on me?

JULIA
It’s not a… Trevor doesn’t like using the book. I don’t either. Makes me feel off. Dead should stay dead.

ARCHIVIST
S-So… I mean, why keep it around?

TREVOR
‘Cause sometimes talking to the dead can stop you joining ‘em. Come on Julia.

JULIA
Ah, just give us a knock when you’re done.

ARCHIVIST
Sure.

[DEPARTING FOOTSTEPS]
Sure…

[DOOR CLOSES]
[STILLNESS SAVE FOR THE NORMAL BACKGROUND CHIRP OF INSECTS]
Right… [Exhales]

Okay.

[DEEP BREATH]
“His consciousness faded in and out like the tide. He tried to refuse their drugs, though for what purpose even he could not have said. Perhaps he was simply trying to push away the smell of disinfectant and grief that rose from his hospital bed. She was there sometimes, the one he had followed around the world. There was almost sadness in her eyes. He felt himself begin to slip, the icy certainty of what was happening seeping through his flesh, and as he fell away for the final time, he felt that all-consuming fear. And his only thought was to cry out for his mother. But with the last vestige of his stubborn will, he refused. She would not claim his last moment. He was silent.

[OMINOUS RUMBLE WITH A SIDE OF CRACKLING RISES TO CRESCENDO]
And so Gerard Keay ended.”

Gerard? Gerard Keay?

GERARD
You’re new. Did you kill them?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… who?

GERARD
The Hunters. They had this book. Are they dead?

ARCHIVIST
N-No.

GERARD
Then piss off. I told them I’m not talking.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, what?

GERARD
[Tired] I’m not their bloody Monster Manual. I’m done.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I didn’t - I mean, that’s not what this is.

GERARD
No? They didn’t hand me over for you to use, like I’m a bloody dictionary wrapped in a special box?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… Yeah.

GERARD
Like I said.

…

You got a cigarette?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, oh, yeah. Here. C-Can you smoke it?

GERARD
Ugh. I guess not.

…

Yeah…

…

Nice lighter. You a spider freak, then?

ARCHIVIST
What? Oh! Er, no. I-I never really, uh… I never really thought of it. I-I’m John. I’m with the Magnus Institute.

…

I-I’m the Archivist.

…

GERARD
When did she die?

ARCHIVIST
About a year after you did.

GERARD
Was it peaceful?

ARCHIVIST
…

No.

GERARD
Good. Don’t think she would have wanted that.

God, I can’t imagine her dying in bed.

…

So you’re the new guy, then? Following in her footsteps?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, some of them. They… don’t exactly lead where I thought they would.

GERARD
Yeah, she was like that.

ARCHIVIST
I-I’m trying to stop the Unknowing.

GERARD
[Exhales] She didn’t manage it, then?

ARCHIVIST
Not before she, uh… I need your help.

GERARD
[Snorts] Do you now?

ARCHIVIST
She thought she’d found a-a way to stop it. I think. If anyone knows what that was, it’s you.

GERARD
…

No.

ARCHIVIST
What? W-Why not? If, if it happens, if the Circus -

GERARD
Yeah, the world changes in horrible ways. For you. I’m a book.

ARCHIVIST
You can’t be serious.

GERARD
I’m dead serious.

[GHOSTLY CHUCKLE]
It hurts. Being like this. And it’s not like any pain you can feel when you’re alive. It’s… it hurts to exist. To be dead and still here. And those two want to keep me like this, so I can answer questions about their Dracula of the week. So no. Help me, or you go to your little apocalypse with nothing.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. What do you want?

GERARD
I want to go away. I want you to take my page and burn it.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I can’t do th - They’d know! They’d kill me.

GERARD
Tear it out and take it, then. Do it somewhere else.

ARCHIVIST
B-B-But if they check the book -

GERARD
Guess you better hope they don’t.

ARCHIVIST
Gerard, please…

GERARD
You want answers, you tear out my page now! So I know you can’t back out.

ARCHIVIST
…

[Deep sigh] Okay.

GERARD
Okay.

ARCHIVIST
[Exhales] Ready?

[GERARD INHALES, SUPPRESSING THE PAIN, OVER THE SOUND OF FIBRES RIPPING]
There.

GERARD
Thank you.

ARCHIVIST
Well, you’ve probably killed me.

GERARD
Dying isn’t so bad. It’s staying dead that sucks.

ARCHIVIST
Well, these nuggets of wisdom are certainly worth it so far.

GERARD
Relax. They won’t notice.

ARCHIVIST
So?

GERARD
Okay, you got questions.

ARCHIVIST
Just one. How do I stop the Unknowing?

GERARD
[Casually] No, I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
[Incensed] What?!

GERARD
Oh, okay, okay, I don’t know exactly, but… me and Gertrude went all over, tracking clowns and skinwalkers, trying to find a way to mess it up. I didn’t find much, but Gertrude, she figured a few things out. She reckoned it could be delayed, but nothing we could do beforehand would actually stop it properly. Even the Dancer could be replaced. But, once it starts, then it might be vulnerable.

ARCHIVIST
Vulnerable to what?

GERARD
I dunno.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, goddamn it!

GERARD
But she did say she thought she had something that could do it.

ARCHIVIST
What?

GERARD
Well, not long before I ended up in the hospital, she told me that if something got her first, I was… There’s a storage unit on an industrial estate up near Hainault. She said she rented it under the name Jan Kelly, and hid a key for it somewhere in the Archives.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Uh, I-I think I found that.

GERARD
Well, it’s in that storage unit. Whatever she thought might disrupt the ritual, stop the Unknowing, that’s where it’ll be.

ARCHIVIST
But you don’t know what it is?

GERARD
No. When I asked her, she said she’d show me when we got back to London. Mind you, she had this weird look in her eyes, like it was some kind of a joke.

ARCHIVIST
I mean… it wasn’t, w-was it? A-A joke.

GERARD
I don’t think so. Gertrude didn’t make jokes.

ARCHIVIST
Well, worst-case scenario I suppose I… continue to have nothing.

GERARD
I guess.

…

So… uh, you’re the Archivist now?

ARCHIVIST
Whatever that means.

GERARD
Can’t help you much there. Gertrude was always kind of cagey about it.

ARCHIVIST
Sh-She never showed any… er, abilities, or talked about… I don’t know, destiny? Like she was… b-becoming something?

GERARD
Hmmm… Well, she could make people tell her stuff, sometimes. They’d suddenly get real talkative, and lay out whatever she needed. She didn’t do it often though. I don’t think she liked it.

ARCHIVIST
[Perky] Oh, er, I can do that, too.

GERARD
Huh. Do you like it?

ARCHIVIST
I-I don’t know. I never really thought about it.

Yes, I… I suppose I do.

GERARD
Hmmm.

ARCHIVIST
Did she read statements?

GERARD
Sometimes. If she was getting shaky. They perked her up, I think. Feeding the Eye, you know? I’d sometimes hear her through the wall, just reading into the air, feeling it all.

ARCHIVIST
She… she didn’t use a tape recorder?

GERARD
Not when I was with her. She travelled light. Left things behind.

ARCHIVIST
Kind of sounds like you didn’t… trust her.

GERARD
Yeah, I didn’t. I wanted to, I really did, but it was always the work. Sometimes she just reminded me of my mum.

Did you ever meet her, my mum?

ARCHIVIST
[Flustered] Erm… Not in, not in person, it was er… O-Only by reputation.

GERARD
Huh. Well, she was also, um, ‘goal-orientated’. Ruthless. But at least Gertrude tried to do something worthwhile with it. My mum only had her ambitions. She’d never have even admitted it, though. She was too proud for that. She saw herself as real working class, always said the occult was just a club for rich boys playing politics with things they didn’t understand. Reckoned her tradition was less the academic and more the, uh…

ARCHIVIST
V-Village witch?

GERARD
[Laughingly] You sure you don’t know her?

Yeah. But deep down what she wanted wasn’t all that different from the ivory tower idiots she hated. Y’know, I think, secretly, she dreamed of starting a little mystic dynasty of her own. With me.

ARCHIVIST
Like the, the Lukases? Or the Fairchilds?

GERARD
Well, Fairchild’s just a name, they’re not really family. The Lukases, though, yeah. Thing is, it’s harder than it looks. What’s out there… doesn’t care about blood.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I-I mean, except for the vampires…

GERARD
Yeah, obviously except for the vampires. But they care about your choices, your fears, not your parents. Families are just useful ‘cause they can push you in the right direction. And the Lukases are very good at that.

ARCHIVIST
And I imagine they’re not… reluctant to remove any members that might put that legacy at risk.

GERARD
Right. You know, for a group that worships a power of loneliness, they never seem to have any problems breeding, or finding spooky singles to marry them. Just one of those things, I guess. But most times you try to put your descendants on the path to worship, it doesn’t go great. Just takes one stubborn heir to freak out about the truth, and the whole thing comes crashing down.

ARCHIVIST
And… that was you?

GERARD
Yeah. Turns out not everyone grows up caring about power and knowledge like my mum.

ARCHIVIST
What happened?

GERARD
I tried to abandon her.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

Do you… want to make a statement?

[GERARD GIVES A SMALL LAUGH]
GERARD
Why not? I’ll try to make it quick, before the Van Helsings get bored.

ARCHIVIST
Right. [Cough] Right.

Er… Statement of Gerard Keay, deceased, regarding the death of his mother, Mary Keay. Statement taken posthumously from subject, June 30th, 2017.

Statement begins.

GERARD (STATEMENT)
My mum spent her whole life feeling cheated.

She used to tell me with a kind of sneer that “destiny is for lords”, and I think in her own way she actually believed that. You know, she felt we weren’t important enough for a destiny. But she never forgot that she came a noble house: Von Closen. All wrapped up in mystery and power. At least, that’s what my mum believed. I was never able to find much on them, at all. Nothing that would say there was anything special about them except, y’know, maybe their connection to the Magnus Institute and Jonah Magnus. But she’d never accept that. To her, her ancestors were these ‘powerful sages of terrible gods’, their ‘destinies stolen from them by an idle dilettante’. [Snorts] Least that’s how she told it to me.

I remember that Jurgen Leitner was the first man I ever really hated. I’d never met him, but that was the name on the books that my mum spent all her time reading, and half the time when she actually looked at me, it was to teach me about one of them. She idolised him, I think, almost as much as she despised him. She thought he’d managed what she always dreamed of: using these entities, without being bound to them. I think she saw him as some kind of sorcerer. So she studied those books that she could find, but she always came back to this one, this unnamed catalogue of the trapped dead. It was her first, she always told me, and would probably be her last.

I never knew my dad. Not really. He worked in the Archives like you, but quit once I was born. I think he wanted to help raise me. But mum didn’t need the help, and after me she wasn’t able to have kids again, so she killed him in his sleep to practice her bookbinding. I guess she failed. I always thought he was in here, but when I eventually got hold of it, there wasn’t a page in there.

She did her best to look after me, and bring me into this world she inhabited, but she wasn’t a caring mother or a skilled teacher. My struggling at her lessons infuriated her. I mean, looking back now I can see that her knowledge was basic at best. But I was a kid. I could only try to avoid her temper, and learn my weird lessons, writing out nonsense, and pretending I understood paradoxes that most adults couldn’t handle.

We travelled a lot. Between her day job as a rare bookseller and her… vocation, it wasn’t often we stayed in London for more than a month. We met with things that almost made me throw up I was so afraid, and she’d talk to them like old friends. It was awful, but I suppose in many ways, it worked. Whenever I tried to run away the ‘real’ world seemed so… ignorant I could never be a part of it. So I did my best to find my place within my mum’s world. As an idiot teenager I hunted Leitner’s books with the best of them, even found a few. I’d bring them home, and watch her eyes light up. But it was always the books that she was happy to see.

Eventually, I grew old enough and wise enough to see her obsession for what it really was: hubris. She lived just carefully enough not to be destroyed by things she studied, but that was it. The things out there, they weren’t like taming fire, they couldn’t be contained or used for light or warmth. The best you could hope for from them, would be that they don’t spot you, and instead my mum chased after them, obsessed with others who had tried to stare at them without being blinded: y’know, Flamsteed, Smirke, Leitner. Idiots who destroyed themselves chasing a secret that wasn’t worth knowing. And the worst thing was, she marked me as a part of that, without my understanding. Or consent.

Our relationship, such as it was, it quickly went downhill. But I never managed to leave. I just couldn’t bring myself to finally cut that cord and abandon her, no matter what she said. And I think she knew that. I think she knew she had me trapped. But it was a hollow victory. She also knew that I wouldn’t continue her work, that whatever destiny she had tried to write for the Von Closen line, died with her. I think that might have been what finally pushed her to do it. To try and take full control of the book.

I remember the smell when I came back to the shop that day, the heavy blood smell. She had just finished writing on the third sheet she’d hung on that old fishing wire, laced between the shelves, and she was on the edge of passing out. She wouldn’t stop, though. She wouldn’t give in. She thrust a razor blade and a marker pen at me, and begged me to help her finish. Everything was red, every possible shade of dark, and wet, and drying crimson. I turned to run but I slipped, fell to the floor and I crawled, panicking, down into the street. I managed to stagger to a coffee shop across the road, and I just sat there in shock until the police arrived.

Between the blood on my clothes, eyewitnesses who saw me leaving, and the fact the mutilations were so awful the judge said it was “inconceivable to suggest they were self-inflicted”, it seemed like an open-and-shut case. And honestly, there was a part of me which thought a life in prison was an alright price for freedom. Trouble was, whatever ritual my mum tried to do? It worked. She had bound herself to the book, and was able to manifest almost at will. How she removed it from police custody I don’t know, but it left enough of the other evidence ‘contaminated’ that my case was judged a mistrial. I was later told there wasn’t enough evidence to charge me again. Apparently, several witnesses had withdrawn their testimony. I wasn’t going to be imprisoned, but… I was a long way from free.

She was waiting for me when I got home. The half-finished ritual had left her… damaged. She was powerful, but… erratic. Of course she blamed me for her new state, said if I had helped her she would have been completely beyond death. But as she was, she wasn’t going anywhere.

For the next five years she haunted my life. I did what she asked, but whenever her form faded for a few days, I would take what little revenge I could: I burned books, I covered leads. I occasionally fled to somewhere I thought it’d be hard for her to follow.

And in the end, it was Gertrude who saved me. She came to me when I was desperate, nowhere to go, and she offered to help. I just had to make sure I took the book while my mum was fading, and brought it to her, and then she would free me. I didn’t really believe her, I don’t think, but I did it anyway. When she returned the book to me a week later, her pages burned and mangled, I think I actually cried with relief.

I never even considered that my mum might have taught Gertrude how to make pages for it before she was destroyed.

[Sigh] I think you know the rest. I joined Gertrude’s work for a few years. Didn’t realise how ill I was until it finally caught up with me. Then I died.

I think… I think I finally understand why she brought me back. I just don’t understand why she left me behind.

ARCHIVIST
What was Gertrude’s work?

GERARD
What?

ARCHIVIST
I-I mean, I - Sorry, I-I know a lot about what Gertrude did, but I don’t really know… why she was doing any of it, or w-what her intentions were.

GERARD
Same as you. I think.

ARCHIVIST
Stopping the Unknowing?

GERARD
Not just the Unknowing. All of them.

ARCHIVIST
There are more rituals…

GERARD
That’s what she said.

ARCHIVIST
W-W-What do they do?

GERARD
I mean… they change the world. They make it new.

ARCHIVIST
An apocalypse.

GERARD
Kind of.

How much do you know about these things, the Eye and that?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - Uh… they’re, they’re malicious. Many consider them god-like and t-they have the power to affect the world in unnatural ways, but they cannot directly exist within it, so they rely on avatars or, or servants that they corrupt and… sometimes monsters that they create. They use their power in ways small enough to stay hidden, a-and I think… I think they feed on our fear.

GERARD
No, they don’t feed on it. They are it.

ARCHIVIST
What? W-what do you mean?

GERARD
I mean what I said. These things, these forces, they are our fear. Deep fears. Primordial. Always looking for ways to grow and spread.

ARCHIVIST
No… B-B-But that doesn’t - I m-mean, it doesn’t make -

GERARD
What? So you thought it was coincidence that unknowable alien consciousnesses from beyond our universe just so happen to basically be all the things we’re terrified of?

ARCHIVIST
I - How?!

GERARD
No idea.

Smarter people than me have died trying to figure that one out. I mean, maybe they appeared out of nothing the first time something felt afraid. Maybe they’re older than that, and they just got inspired by all the things that we dread. Did they make themselves from our fears, or are they why we’re afraid? I really don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
But, but not everything they do inspires fear.

GERARD
And if you’re having an omelette for lunch, not every moment is spent eating the omelette. Some things take preparation. Especially if, you know, your spatula has a bit of free will. And sometimes I think bits of them just… ooze into the world without any purpose at all. Or sometimes they’re summoned.

ARCHIVIST
Fears change. Fears are-are-are cultural.

GERARD
A lot of them, yeah, but others are deeper than that. And when our fears change, so do these things. But it’s not quick. Gertrude reckons they’ve basically been the same since the Industrial Revolution. She and my mum both liked to follow Smirke’s list of fourteen.

ARCHIVIST
[Disbelievingly] Th - I mean, there are a lot more than fourteen things to be afraid of in the world. Where do you draw the line?

GERARD
Hmmm.

I always think it helps to imagine them like colours. The edges bleed together, and you can talk about little differences: “oh, that’s indigo, that’s more lilac”, but they’re both purple. I mean, I guess there are technically infinite colours, but you group them together into a few big ones. A lot of it’s kind of arbitrary. I mean, why are navy blue and sky blue both called blue, when pink’s an entirely different colour from red? Y’know? I don’t know, that’s just how it works.

And like colours, some of these powers, they feed into or balance each other. Some really clash, and you just can’t put them together. I mean, you could see them all as just one thing, I guess, but it would be pretty much meaningless, y’know, like… like trying to describe a… shirt by talking about the concept of colour.

O-Of course, with these things it’s not a simple spectrum, y’know, it’s more like -

ARCHIVIST
An infinite amorphous blob of terror bleeding out in every direction at once.

GERARD
Now you’re getting it.

ARCHIVIST
Like colours, but if colours hated me. Got it. Christ, I need a cigarette.

GERARD
Yeah, well, you can wait. Don’t know how much longer we have.

ARCHIVIST
Hang on, if these entities are all based on our, on our fear, the-the-then what, what about the, the rest -

GERARD
No. There aren’t any god-like powers of hope, or love, or indigestion, or whatever. At least not that I’ve seen. Just fear. I don’t know why.

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

So… so, I know a, a few… but what are they, these fourteen?

GERARD
[Recites] “Robert Smirke divided the beings into fourteen distinct Powers, each comprising a variety of smaller terrors, some direct and practical, and some more abstract.”

ARCHIVIST
R-r-right. I know The Eye. Fear of being watched, right?

GERARD
Being watched, being followed, having your deepest secrets exposed. Needing to know, even if your discoveries might destroy you. The feeling that something, somewhere, is letting you suffer, just so it can watch.

ARCHIVIST
Is… is that me? Is… is that what I do?

GERARD
You’re the Archivist, you tell me.

ARCHIVIST
Ah…

Ah.

The Spiral is the fear of madness, right? That worry that your world isn’t right, th-that your mind is lying to you?

GERARD
Yeah, pretty much.

ARCHIVIST
And The End is fear of death.

GERARD
Simple, but always there.

ARCHIVIST
The Stranger is the, the unknown. The uncanny.

GERARD
That kind of creeping sense that something’s not right. That guy you saw that might be following you, might mean you harm.

ARCHIVIST
Isolation.

GERARD
Smirke called it The Lonely. The feeling that you’re just… alone. Maybe there’s no-one else there at all, maybe you just can’t connect.

ARCHIVIST
Then there’s… burning, the, uh, the Lightless Flame.

GERARD
The Desolation. Fear of pain, fear of loss, fear of unthinking or cruel destruction.

ARCHIVIST
Does it… watch over, um, war as, as well? Or is, is that The End?

GERARD
I mean, I think they both get a lot out of war, but you’re thinking of The Slaughter. It’s not cruel, exactly, or unstoppable like The End. It’s just pure violence, not targeted or premeditated, just… unpredictable violence. And you don’t know when, or if it’s even coming. Sometimes it’s aggressive, like a frenzied killer, but sometimes it’s calm, like an army firing shells into a village. The Slaughter’s not that common in peace but, well, you know, there’s always a war somewhere.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

And, and then th-there’s, uh… Vertigo. The fear of, the fear of falling.

GERARD
The Vast. Vertigo, agoraphobia, the dread of deep water, of our own insignificance before the universe.

ARCHIVIST
And on the other side, claustrophobia?

GERARD
The Buried. Small spaces, crushing, you can’t breath. You’re at the centre of everything, and it all pushes down on you. If the Vast is like losing yourself in too much space, the Buried is being trapped without enough.

ARCHIVIST
Darkness?

GERARD
The Dark, yeah. That’s an old one, and one of the deepest. I mean, who isn’t a little bit afraid of the dark? Of what might be in it?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. And there, um… I think Filth, it’s, it’s disease, but also insects?

GERARD
The Corruption. Ooh, it’s a nasty one, that one. Just… disgust. Rot, decay, infection. That feeling of your skin crawling or itching, being touched by something that might burrow inside you. Swarming and hollowing you out. Leaving you full of holes.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. Not spiders, though?

GERARD
No. They belong to The Web.

ARCHIVIST
Which is… spiders a-and control. Your, your will not being your own.

GERARD
Yeah. Being manipulated or puppeted. The worry you’re caught in a trap you can’t see.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

…

What about meat? How does that work?

GERARD
Ah, The Flesh?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I-I mean, are we really so afraid of being… eaten? Of our bodies being all twisted up, i-i-is that… I mean, some people sure, but… how is it one of the fourteen great fears?

GERARD
What? You think people are so special it’s only our fear that counts?

ARCHIVIST
Wh - No…

GERARD
Everything feels afraid sometimes. Sure, maybe it’s not as complicated or… existential as our fear, but it’s real. And there’s, what, twenty billion chickens in the world? A few billion pigs, cows… How many of them are dying of old age? All that terror, it has to go somewhere. So it does.

ARCHIVIST
And when something formed out of an animalistic fear of the slaughterhouse reaches out to, to people…

GERARD
Things get weird. Yeah. It gets mixed all up with human neuroses: bodies, gore, y’know, that nagging worry that deep down we’re just electrified meat squeezing air at each other.

ARCHIVIST
Good lord.

GERARD
I think it’s quite new. Only just beginning its, uh, ascendance when Smirke labelled it. Before that there just weren’t enough animals for it to be a fear of its own. Back then I think the only animal fear was The Hunt.

ARCHIVIST
The Hunt is also animals?

GERARD
Yeah. Been a long time since humans had any proper sense of our place on the food chain. I mean, we haven’t been ‘prey’ for, what, thousands of years?

ARCHIVIST
But, I mean, hunting, killing each other. That-That’s just how wild animals work. I-I-It’s… natural.

GERARD
So’s death. But we’re still afraid of it.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose. And again, when an animalistic fear touches a human…

GERARD
You get the Predator’s granddad out there.

ARCHIVIST
[Considering] This is, uh…

No, I don’t have time. Tell me about the rituals.

GERARD
Well, they all have one. Most of them, anyway. Takes centuries to build up to a level of power where they can try it, and if they fail, it’s back to square one.

ARCHIVIST
Okay, but what do the rituals do?

GERARD
They… kind of ‘shift’ the world, just enough for the Power to come through. Merge with reality. Some say, or well, they guess, that it could bring other entities through with them. I mean, I doubt The Buried would be bringing through The Vast, but you know.

ARCHIVIST
But what does that actually mean. F-For the world? ‘Merging with reality’?

GERARD
Okay, well… You know how I was just talking about the Hunt and the Flesh?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

GERARD
Well, think of it this way: right now all the entities have to act like a hunter, they pick off the weak ones around the edges, the ones that wander too close, and the rest of the time they have to just graze on whatever fear we all passively give away.

ARCHIVIST
And if one of the rituals succeeds?

GERARD
The world becomes a factory farm.

ARCHIVIST
…

Why would anyone want that? I-I mean, there are people, or they used to be people, who are trying to do this. Why?

GERARD
I dunno. Power, maybe? Or they’ve just got close enough to their patron or whatever that they also feed on it. I guess maybe some people just have a weird relationship with fear.

ARCHIVIST
And Gertrude wanted to stop them.

At any cost.

GERARD
She worked out they’d all be happening quite close together. She’d already been doing it a while. And the Unknowing was the next on her list. That and the Watcher’s Crown.

ARCHIVIST
The what?

GERARD
Uh, the Rite of the Watcher’s Crown. It’s what she called the ritual for the Eye. She didn’t tell me much about that one, just that she knew how to take care of it. To be honest, when she was going through this stuff, that was about the time I thought I had found Leitner, so I wasn’t much in the mood to listen.

ARCHIVIST
Leitner?

GERARD
Yeah. Gertrude reckoned he was alive somewhere.

Said she thought she’d found him. I tracked him down, but it… well, it wasn’t him.

ARCHIVIST
Y-You’re sure?

GERARD
It was just some pathetic old man. Couldn’t have been him. He was so scared of me, I just… just let him go.

ARCHIVIST
Are you alright?

GERARD
I think… I think I’m ready to go. I’m done. Hide my page, and when you’re out of here, burn it.

Please.

ARCHIVIST
I will. Thank you, Gerard.

GERARD
Gerry.

ARCHIVIST
What?

GERRY
Gerard was what my mum called me. [Embarrassed chuckle] I always wanted my friends to call me Gerry.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you, Gerry. Uh… I dismiss you.

[RELIEVED SIGH AND STATIC]
Oh.

Alright.

[CLOSES BOOK AND CLEARS THROAT]
I’m ready!

[FOOTSTEPS & DOOR OPENS]
TREVOR
All done?

ARCHIVIST
I… Yeah. I-I think so.

TREVOR
I’ll get it back in the box.

[FOOTSTEPS DEPARTING WITH BOOK]
JULIA
Did he tell you what you needed?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - Maybe. He told me… a lot.

JULIA
Yeah, he does that.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I-I feel like I knew so most of it, but…

JULIA
Hearing it all laid out, right? Like a punch to the gut.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

JULIA
You need a drink?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[FOOTSTEPS]
JULIA
You find anything about the Stranger? Stopping that… The Unknowing?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, er, I think so. I hope so.

[LIQUID SOUNDS]
JULIA
So, what’s our next move?

[FOOTSTEPS]
ARCHIVIST
Well, mine’s a flight back to London. I-I-I think you said that would be a problem for you, you two?

JULIA
Yeah. To be honest, if this thing is as soon as you think it’s gonna be, and back in England? Well, I’m not sure how much ‘elp we can be.

ARCHIVIST
You’ve already done… so much more than enough.

JULIA
Yeah well, you brought us Max Mustermann’s head. I think we’re going to have a lot fun with that. Plus, if you do save the world…

ARCHIVIST
I suppose we’ll call it even.

JULIA
More or less.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you, Julia. I mean it.

JULIA
Well, it’s just killing monsters really, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
How about that drink?

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
BASIRA
Okay…

[EXHALED BREATH]
[Adopts ‘Archivist voice’] Statement of Lisa Carmel, regarding -

[Normal voice] No. Statement of Lisa Carmel, regarding her involvement in a series of murders. Statement number 0111311, 13th November, 2011. Basira Hussain recording.

Statement begins.

BASIRA (STATEMENT)
Okay, I know how it sounds, but Murder Club wasn’t supposed to be like this. It was just true crime stuff. My boyfriend, well, ex-boyfriend, used to call it my “serial killer fan club”, which I’ll admit doesn’t make it sound a lot better, but you’ve gotta believe there was no way any of us would have chosen to get involved in anything like what’s happening.

Except, I guess, that we did. Somehow.

I’m not a violent person, not at all. My sisters used to play fight when we were kids, and I’d always just… I’d end up crying in the corner. But for some reason, true crime never had that effect on me. Or maybe it did, but I kind of liked it when I could control it. I remember when I first got the taste. I stumbled across a book on famous murders that had somehow ended up in our school library. I read about Lizzie Borden, feeling the breath catch in my throat, and I put the book away quickly before literally running out of the library. I didn’t sleep at all that night, but I still went back to that book the next day.

It’s always scared me. That’s the thing. I could never get into horror; ghosts and monsters always left me bored. Even thrillers never really got me in the same way. But there was just a part of me that always knew it wasn’t real, it never happened. But true crime? The awful stuff that humans do to one another? That got me. I used to think it was about facing the darkness, and coming to terms with my fear, or somehow honouring the victims, but it’s not. It’s just that there’s a part of me that gets an awful little buzz from it. From that shudder that goes through my body when I’m getting all the gory details of how someone died at the hands of a real-life human monster. Books, podcasts, documentaries, I… I went through all of them all, and still wanted more. And then I found Murder Club.

Well, it’s more that I founded Murder Club. Co-founded, at least. And Murder Club wasn’t an official name or anything, it’s just what we called it. We all met through one of those meetup websites, I-I forget which one. It was about three years ago, and I’d just moved to London, so… I tended to trawl a bunch of them to try and find things to do, places I might make some new friends. This one was advertised as the first meeting of a “True Crime Discussion and Reading Group”, and as you might have guessed by now, that was right up my street.

We met up, had a great time discussing a book on Tillie Klimek, and decided to make it a regular event. Pretty soon Murder Club was meeting up every other week. A few of us wanted to do it weekly, but Jamie was a slow reader and didn’t think he could keep up. We’d occasionally all see each other outside the regular meetings if we were watching a new documentary together or something like that. Once, we even went on a day trip to the True Crime Museum in Hastings.

Let’s see, at the moment it’s me, Jamie Sanders, Ananya Kaleka, who we were all founding members, and then there’s Ananya’s wife Evelyn, Andrew Cochrane, who I invited him from work, and Debbie Truss, who joined us about a year ago, but… I don’t remember where from. There used to be more, but people… come and go. So, six of us at the moment. Well, I suppose three. Evelyn, Jamie and Debbie are already dead, so I don’t know how much you’d call them ‘current members’, but you know what I mean.

I really don’t know how it all happened. This ‘jump’ from morbid book club to actual murder came so quickly. This time last week I was finishing up a memoir by a retired FBI profiler, getting ready for Murder Club the next evening; now I’m here, trying to explain things to you in case the others get to me. Probably putting you in danger as well, to be honest, so… sorry about that.

That was the meeting where everything went wrong. It was at my flat - I technically only have a room, with the rest of the place shared between a rotating cast of whatever international students and burnouts my landlord rents to. But that night I had the flat mercifully to myself. I opened the windows to let out the smell of smoke, turned on a small space heater to help with the chill, and laid out a couple of bottles of wine that I bought special.

Jamie turned up first, as usual. He has an obvious crush on me, but he’s also about ten years older that I am - was ten years older - and I just wasn’t into him. Still, he was nice enough company, and we usually chat until the others arrived. Ananya and Evelyn were next, and then Debbie. Andrew was late, but it was because he’d been whiskey shopping, which he explained was apparently a thing, and he was in a sharing mood, so we managed to forgive him. We all had our little pre-club catch-up, talking about life and work and the state of the world, and we were just about to dive into the main discussion, when there was another knock at the door.

[KNOCKING AT THE DOOR]
BASIRA
Ah.

[DOOR OPENS]
Oh, hiya Daisy!

DAISY
Come on.

BASIRA
Um, I’m kind of in the middle of something.

DAISY
Well, finish up. Sims is back. Wants to talk to everyone.

BASIRA
What? Since when?

DAISY
[Impatient] His flight got in a few hours ago.

BASIRA
And he called you?

DAISY
No. Elias sent me to pick him up. Didn’t want him grabbed again.

BASIRA
Again?

DAISY
You coming?

BASIRA
Well, not yet. I’ve got to finish here first. You go on ahead.

…

Daisy?

DAISY
Fine.

[DOOR CLOSES]
BASIRA
Okay, where was I?

Right, okay, statement continues.

BASIRA (STATEMENT)
- we were just about to dive into the main discussion, when there was another knock at the door.

There was a quick look of confusion that passed between us all, and my heart sank, assuming one of my flatmates had returned earlier than promised. I was dreading an awkward Lithuanian math student sitting in the corner with a glass of orange juice, staring at us as we self-consciously talked about… decomposition rates and timelines. But those worries vanished as soon as Jamie opened the door. The person who stood on the other side of it was definitely not one of my flatmates.

The first thing I noticed was the height. They were well over six foot, and the top of their head disappeared above the door. The second thing was the mask, pure white polystyrene, and cut into the rough shape of some kind of demon or wolf. The third thing I noticed was the knife.

Jamie noticed it too, and leapt backwards just as the figure lunged towards him. Suddenly everything was moving. Everyone was on their feet, shouting as the figure lumbered clumsily inside, swinging wildly at everyone who got near. I dashed to the small kitchen, and reached for a knife of my own, never taking my eyes off my target. It was a strange thing to watch. I would have expected everyone to be running; Evelyn and Debbie both had a clear path to the open door, but instead we were all just watching, keeping as much distance as possible, occasionally making a motion to disarm him, staying just out of the blade’s path. As I reached for another knife, I found myself tapping my foot, as if to music.

Our attacker was starting to slow now, his movements becoming laboured, his lunges predictable and weak. When he swung at Andrew, his blade went too wide, and he overbalanced. Ananya didn’t waste a second, dropping down and kicking him hard in the back of the knee. He fell like… like an ancient tree, and his head slammed into the corner of the old wooden coffee table with a nasty thud. It tore through the thin grey string that held the mask in place. He lay there motionless.

The face underneath was nothing special. A bald man, maybe forty years old? None of us knew him. He wasn’t an infamous murderer, or someone with a personal vendetta; he was just a man who came to my home to kill us. Everyone had gone very quiet, but it wasn’t like a silence of shock or terror. It was more like a heavy silence of waiting for something to happen. Of expectation. Debbie finally spoke up, saying we should call the police, but she was lying and we all knew it. I looked down at my hands, and realised I’d picked up six knives from the kitchen drawer. Two were chef’s knives, three were for vegetables and one was a battered old bread knife. All of them were sharp enough to do the job, even if I still hadn’t quite figured out what the job was.

I walked slowly over to the unconscious figure on the floor. The others all leaned over him, inspecting their prize. I swear Ananya was licking her lips. When I reached them they all turned to stare at the blades in my hand, and one by one they took whichever knife spoke to them. I ended up with a vegetable knife, one of the smaller ones, but wickedly sharp. I can show it to you if you like.

We all stared at each other for a long few seconds, waiting, like there was going to be some invisible signal. And apparently there was, because all at once we descended, stabbing and slicing and carving and cutting, blood dripping and spraying up in tiny bursts as our knives worked on him. I don’t know exactly when he died. Maybe he was dead already when his head hit the table. It doesn’t matter. It makes no difference to what happened.

And when it was over, we just stood there, satisfied, basking in what we’d done. Like the warm glow of an approving parent, tinged with a bloody sweetness. Or the feeling after a heavy but delicious meal, where you want nothing more than to sit and enjoy how full you feel. When Andrew suggested he get rid of the body, no-one thought to object. He and Jamie dragged it out, I assume to his car, and that was that. I guess they must have gotten rid of it. The police certainly haven’t come round asking about a corpse. Not that I’d know if they had, I guess.

The others drifted out at their own pace. They didn’t need to say goodbye. They… didn’t need to say anything. We understood each other perfectly. I wandered dreamily into my bedroom, and fell onto my bed.

I was woken up by a pounding on my door. It was Matis, my flatmate, clearly angry and not a little alarmed at the mess in the living room. His face went pale when he saw I was streaked with gore, and he just kept asking, “Is it blood? Is it blood?” I didn’t really know what to say to this, so… I just nodded, and he took a few steps backwards, then he turned and walked away unsteadily. I thought about following him, trying to explain what had happened at Murder Club, but there didn’t seem much point. Poor Matis would never understand. At best he could only watch from the sidelines, getting a… a sad vicarious thrill from crimes he was too cowardly to even consider. But I was better than that. I am better than that. I’m beyond.

I went back into my room to change into clean clothes. There was no need to announce my intentions to the world, and… the others would certainly be waiting. I took my small knife and tucked it away. I thought about testing it on Matis, but there was no way he would have been able to understand what was happening.

I first paid a visit to Andrew’s house up near Hampstead, where I was told by his upset mother that he wasn’t home. She said he had left abruptly, and had shoved her aside when she asked where he was going. As she said this I spun around, suddenly afraid I had left myself open, but the street was empty. I didn’t even notice Andrew’s mother slamming the door. I retreated to the shade of a tree to think about my next move. For some reason, the memory of the whiskey shop that Andrew had talked about the day before pushed into my head, so I smiled, and took off at a sprint. I’m sure it would have been quicker to take the Underground or a bus, but I craved that run through the cold November air, my blood pumping and my teeth sharp.

I arrived at the small Camden whiskey shop too late. Andrew wasn’t there, but apparently Debbie and Jamie had had the same idea as me, and they’d met outside the shop. If I were a betting woman I’d have put money on Debbie, and I’d have been right. She was the sort of big with real strength behind it, and she had used it to put her bread knife all the way through Jamie’s throat. She looked up from the body and saw me. And as soon as our eyes met, I knew the chase was on, and this time I was the prey.

I fled, ducking through alleyways and market stalls as she ran after me. She had the edge in strength, but I was quick, and found it easier to slip through the morning crowds. I had a close call near Camden Lock, but I managed to lose her, disappearing up towards Holloway.

And the last five days have been more of that. I caught Evelyn alone two days ago on a bridge near Leytonstone. She almost threw me into the traffic below, but… instead I stabbed her four times in the chest, and my little vegetable blade found her heart. Andrew managed to lure Debbie into an ambush just outside my flat, of all places, even though I haven’t been back since the last Murder Club. Which, I rather think will have been the last Murder Club.

And I was thinking, yesterday, how strange all this was. And it occurred to me that, while it might seem ridiculous, maybe there was something supernatural about all this. Maybe the chase isn’t as normal as it feels. Before we killed that man, I don’t think any of this would have felt right. So I thought I’d come and talk to you, before it all comes to an end. So, sorry if Andrew or Ananya attack anyone here because they saw me come in. I don’t think they will, they’re usually pretty careful, but still. I think that’s all of it, really. I’m probably going to leave now, try to hunt down my friends. It’s weird, you know? I don’t remember feeling this way when we first set up Murder Club. But… I suppose at least we don’t have to change the name.

BASIRA
Statement ends.

Damn. I remember this case. It was a bit before my time, but yeah. Six, um, ‘friends’, they basically spent about two weeks murdering each other before the last survivor was finally caught. Ananya Kaleka was apprehended just after she cut Lisa Carmel’s throat in an alleyway near East Croydon station. The way the other officers told it, she never said a word except to plead guilty, and died in her cell a few months later. Apparently she just… stopped.

I don’t know anything about any assailant in a mask, though. That’s not a part of the story I’ve ever heard before. You don’t get a great description in this statement, but it might be worth checking missing persons for that period, checking any violent offenders that might have disappear -

[KNOCKING AT THE DOOR]
[Sighs] Come in, Daisy.

[DOOR OPENS]
DAISY
You done?

BASIRA
Yeah, let’s go.

DAISY
No need.

BASIRA
Um…?

DAISY
He’s gone. Heading over to some storage unit. Says it’s important.

BASIRA
Oh, so are we going to meet him there, or…?

DAISY
He asked for someone to stay back, distract Elias a bit. I said we’d do it.

BASIRA
Both of us?

DAISY
Yeah. Couldn’t find Tim, but he’s gone with Martin and… the other one.

BASIRA
Melanie.

DAISY
Sure.

BASIRA
I mean, it might be dangerous.

DAISY
They’ll be fine.

BASIRA
Is… Is there something wrong, Daisy?

DAISY
[Quickly] No. So… how’s your new job? Working a lot of overtime?

BASIRA
It’s, uh… alright, I guess. Once you get used to constantly feeling like you’re being watched. Just a bit of low-level dread. Kinda peaceful. Been reading a lot.

DAISY
Mmm.

BASIRA
How about you?

DAISY
Elias is keeping me busy. Hunting. Takes a while. [Falters] I’m used to working with a partner.

It’s fine.

BASIRA
Daisy…

DAISY
It’s fine.

BASIRA
Right. But it’s not, though, is it?

DAISY
You’re getting comfortable with all those books. Don’t forget why you’re here.

BASIRA
I know where I am, Daisy, and I know that I’m a prisoner.

DAISY
And you want to escape.

BASIRA
Yeah. But not on my own. We’re working on something. I’ll ask Melanie to fill you in.

DAISY
Fine.

…

Maybe you could ask Elias if you can join me on a case?

…

BASIRA
How does it feel?

DAISY
What?

BASIRA
How does it feel when you make a kill?

DAISY
[Wary] I don’t know. Good. Why?

BASIRA
I don’t know, it doesn’t feel like… “the warm glow of an approving parent, tinged with a bloody sweetness”?

DAISY
Don’t.

BASIRA
What?

DAISY
I’m not one of your bloody puzzles.

BASIRA
I’m sorry. I just… I worry.

DAISY
Worry about yourself. I’m fine.

BASIRA
Are you sure? ‘Cause you look…

Are you sleeping?

DAISY
Yeah.

…

Do you still have the dreams?

BASIRA
Um, no, not really. Not since we joined up here, I don’t think. You?

DAISY
Yeah.

BASIRA
They’re getting worse?

DAISY
No, not, it’s just - Doesn’t matter. We need to decide what to do with Elias before the others get to Hainault.

BASIRA
Daisy.

DAISY
I’m thinking a fire.

BASIRA
Maybe something a bit subtler? A problem in the break room?

DAISY
I could beat someone up?

BASIRA
Maybe. Anyway, do you want to, um… I could do with some air.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[ALL AUDIO IS SOMEWHAT MUFFLED, AS IF THE TAPEDECK IS IN A BAG OR BOX]
[RATTLE OF A ROLL-UP SHUTTER OPENING]
ARCHIVIST
There.

MARTIN
Huh.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
I just… I thought it would be less… I don’t know, crowded.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, you know Gertrude. If something’s worth doing, it’s worth… looking through two dozen unmarked cardboard boxes for.

MELANIE
So, what are we looking for?

ARCHIVIST
I’m… still not exactly sure. I-It might be an old, taxidermied gorilla skin. Or… not. Apparently it should be obvious.

MELANIE
Right. Then let’s get on with it.

[NOISES OF MOVEMENT & SEARCHING]
MARTIN
So, you actually met vampire Trevor then?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I, I met… quite a few people from the statements. You remember, er, Dr. Elliott’s statement? The anatomy students trying to pose as people, who definitely weren’t people?

MARTIN
Oh… y-yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Well, turns out one of them became a police officer. Or, pretended to.

MARTIN
Ugh, ooh… Is that the one Trevor…?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

MARTIN
And he… killed it?

ARCHIVIST
Umm… That’s- I mean, it’s not as simple as… Found anything yet?

MARTIN
Er… er… Bunch of… eyeless paintings.

MELANIE
[Jovially] Snap! Eyeless dolls. Oh, and just a lot of shredded newspapers.

ARCHIVIST
Same.

MARTIN
Mmm.

Ooh! Ooh! There’s a book in this one.

ARCHIVIST
[Hastily] Don’t… touch it!

MARTIN
Ooh… OH! Right, yes.

ARCHIVIST
Let’s… not touch any books we don’t know.

MARTIN
Right.

ARCHIVIST
Step back.

[PAUSE, THEN CAUTIOUS PAGE TURNING]
ARCHIVIST
[Exhales] It’s just a notebook. I think… um…

[MARTIN SIGHS IN RELIEF]
MARTIN
What’s in it?

ARCHIVIST
Not sure, er… Names, locations, dates. I’ll, I’ll check properly later. Doesn’t look like it’s to do with the Unknowing, I don’t think.

Right.

[SEARCHING RESUMES]
MARTIN
So… how was it?

ARCHIVIST
Ah?

MARTIN
America? And China? I’ve never really actually done any, you know, travelling.

MELANIE
It’s not all that. Sometimes you get shot by a ghost.

ARCHIVIST
And refuse to give a statement about it.

MELANIE
Yup!

ARCHIVIST
It was nice, Martin.

[Reconsiders] It was… weird. Paranoia is an odd combination with culture shock. Really rather disorientating.

MARTIN
I mean… it wasn’t actually paranoia, though, was it? Because, they were out to get you.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose that they were.

MELANIE
Wasn’t a great time back here, either.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, god, Melanie, of course. I’m… I’m sorry. If I’d known that Ivy Meadows was -

MELANIE
What?! You’d have told me? Let me learn from one of your statements instead of from Elias? I don’t see that changing anything.

ARCHIVIST
Even so, I… am… I’m sorry.

MELANIE
I don’t need your apology. Or your pity.

ARCHIVIST
Of course. [Then much quieter] Of course.

Martin’s plan is solid. I think.

MARTIN
I mean, they might just kill him.

MELANIE
Good.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, maybe. But… I think they’re still our best chance. Even if we did manage to blindside him, I-I don’t know how long we could… hold him.

MARTIN
And, in fairness, he’s happy enough to use the police against us.

ARCHIVIST
Quite. And I’d rather not be staring down a kidnapping charge on top of everything-

MELANIE
[Urgently] Uh, John?

ARCHIVIST
Yes?

MELANIE
I… I think I found that gorilla skin you were talking about….

ARCHIVIST
Perfect! Er, now if we could just -

MELANIE
Or, I’m afraid… uh, what’s, what’s left of it.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

MELANIE
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
So… she did destroy it.

MELANIE
Apparently.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[SOUNDS OF BOX LATCHES BEING UNDONE AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS]
So if that’s… not what we’re looking for…

MARTIN
J-J-John, John!

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
I think I’ve found it!

ARCHIVIST
W-Wh-What is it?

[MELANIE CACKLES]
MELANIE
I think you’re gonna want to see this!

ARCHIVIST
Good lord! Is… Is that…?

MELANIE
Looks like it.

ARCHIVIST
Where the hell did she get this? I -

Martin, don’t touch it!

MARTIN
Sorry!

ARCHIVIST
Is it… stable?

MELANIE
How should I know? I don’t even know what kind it is!

ARCHIVIST
I mean, it looks like… C4?

MELANIE
Are you just saying that because it’s the only plastic explosive you’ve ever heard of?

ARCHIVIST
Well, I mean, that is to say…

MARTIN
- so many others -

ARCHIVIST
M-Martin! Stop trying to touch the plastic explosive!

MARTIN
Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.

MELANIE
Guys…

ARCHIVIST
Just put your hands in your pockets, or… something…

MARTIN
Look, I said, I said I’m sorry…

MELANIE
Guys!

ARCHIVIST & MARTIN
What?

MELANIE
Do you hear that?

MARTIN
Hear what?

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

MELANIE
It’s like…

ARCHIVIST
Oh goddammit…

Oookay.

MELANIE
Is, is that…?

[UNZIPPING OF A BAG]
MARTIN
[Explodes] What were you thinking bringing that along?!

ARCHIVIST
I just - I mean - I forgot!

MELANIE
[Indignant & furious] You forgot?!

MARTIN
[Screeching] Turn it off!

ARCHIVIST
I am! Just give me a second-

MELANIE
[Clenched teeth] Turn it off!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
[Deep sigh] Statement of Adelard Dekker, regarding the near death and subsequent activities of Justin Gough. Statement undated, likely circa 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Gertrude,

It should all be here, though god knows I was tempted to take a block for myself just in case. I won’t even press you for where you got it, though if some of these leads pan out I might need to ask you to track down some more. I assume whatever surveillance meant you needed me to move it, is only keeping track of you, but let me know if there’s anything I need to be on the lookout for. Anyway, you owe me a favour. And… maybe another one once you read this. It might come to nothing, but it’s something you should probably be aware of. I’ll even make it a statement. Give your patron something to keep it satisfied. It’s not like I sleep enough to worry about dreams.

I was pursuing my researches into the new emergence I mentioned earlier. I know you are dismissive of the possibility, but if I’m right, the sudden urgency of these “immediate dangers” you are so focused on could very well be a direct result. But that’s for another day, as this particular instance turned out to be unconnected. The point is, I was alerted to a series of deaths by a coroner friend of mine.

Although all signs pointed to carbon monoxide poisoning, the bodies showed signs of acute distress. The sort you don’t normally get when you die in your sleep. There was blood pooled in the back of the throat, and the vocal cords were shredded, although no neighbours reported hearing a sound. And most importantly, at all three scenes there was evidence of a second person who had apparently left without suffering any ill effects. The deaths were about a fortnight apart, and when the third came in with the same symptoms, Bianca, the coroner, called me in. For the last few years we’ve had an… arrangement. I slip her a bit of cash to feed a nasty habit she has, and if she’s called to any inquest which looks strange, I’m the first to know.

Despite her weakness, Bianca is still a damn good coroner, and filled me in on the details quickly. The deaths had been carbon monoxide, she said, and by way of example showed me a plastic cup full of blood. It was bright red. “Cherry red”, Bianca told me, a good sign of CO poisoning. But apparently they hadn’t found any trace of the gas in the homes of the deceased. Current theory was that someone was deliberately gassing people while they slept, but Bianca was adamant that, as far as she could tell, it seemed to have bypassed the lungs completely, appearing right into their blood as carbohaemoglobin or whatever. From the look on their faces I could tell two things. It had hurt. And they had never woken up.

You see why I thought this might be related? Well, hoped more than thought, maybe. The man-made nature of it seemed like a potential link, but it had few of the other hallmarks. Still, I thought it was worth following up on. Finding who was… killing these people in their sleep.

It’s odd, isn’t it? Sleep. That you can never remember or fully pin down the exact moment you lose consciousness. Just lying there, waiting to find yourself in a dream without the first clue or interest in how or when you got there. Or to find your eyes closed and force them open to sunlight and morning, only realising that sleep has happened in retrospect. I wonder if… death is the same way? No clear dividing line, just… gone, only to realise after it’s happened, except for the fact that there isn’t an after. Is that a comforting thought or a terrifying one? Depends on who you are, I suppose. It bothered me when I was young. If I thought too hard about the concept of sleep, of exactly what it was, I would worry myself, and end up having to turn the light on, and read for an hour or two. Everyone always talks about how they want to die in there sleep, but honestly, I think that’s the death that scares me the most.

But that’s a meditation for another day. As far as these deaths were concerned, I was confident there was something turning up in people’s houses and doing this to them. My first thought was a direct manifestation, but the more I looked into it, the more I suspected maybe it was some poor soul who got in too deep. I don’t know if my little ‘theoretical’ is strong enough yet to start taking avatars, but this one, as you’ve no doubt guessed, turned out to be Terminus.

Justin Gough, his name was. He was admitted to Accident and Emergency at Whipps Cross Hospital about two months ago, suffering from - I’m sure it will come as no surprise - acute carbon monoxide poisoning. He had been camping, and taken a small barbeque into his tent to keep warm. And it… warmed his lungs all the way to the hospital. He was terrified and unintelligible, and then he died. For fifty-two seconds. According to the duty nurse, that is how long Justin Gough was clinically dead, before they managed to restart his heart and get him on a breather machine.

It’s hard to scream with a breathing tube in you, but apparently he gave it a noble attempt when he woke up. The nurse I talked to hadn’t been there, but he had apparently had some sort of near-death experience, and had been describing awful visions to those attending him, muttering obliquely about “terrible things” he’d had to do to return, and prices that would need to be paid. None of the staff who were present would willingly say much more about it, but it had clearly shaken them.

Justin Gough was discharged shortly after, and in rapid succession quit his job, disappeared from social media, and cut off effectively all human contact. He became, to all intents and purposes, a recluse who hasn’t left the house since. Or so the neighbours would say. I had a suspicion that he was leaving, but by night, and for a single, very specific purpose. To pay a debt. While many fall to the Powers through love or terror, sometimes it can be as simple as what you owe. After all, most debts are paid out of fear.

The hospital refused to give me his address, but I managed to acquire it anyway. His building was a squalid little apartment block, in such a state I found it hard to believe that he’d had to go camping in order to get poisoned. The windows were well-barred against intruders, and I didn’t think this was a situation where I could simply knock on the door. So I waited. For two days I sat there, watching the damp eat away at the bricks of that half-rotten building. I was all but ready to write it off, and look for another option, when at last the front door opened and out stepped Justin Gough.

Now, I didn’t have a picture of the man, and had been intending to go on the description given by the hospital workers, but in the end I recognised him simply by the thin trickle of cherry red blood that rolled slowly down his chin, and the fact that, as I watched him descend the steps of his building and walk out onto the pavement, I am quite sure that I did not see him breathe.

He was not tall man, but his frame was rail-thin, and what face I was able to make out was gaunt and hollow. We’ve both seen our share of bodies, Gertrude, so you will understand what I mean when I tell you he had the ‘eyes of the dead’. They moved and they focused, but that subtle glimmer that shows life was wholly absent. All that was left was a skittish sort of terror, as he glanced over his shoulder, desperate to see if he was being followed, and of course overlooking me completely.

This worried me. As you know, I am not by any means a Hunter, and if Justin Gough was as far gone as he appeared, it was likely he was no longer human enough for me to remove him without the aid of one. And while I do know one or two I believe are touched by the scent of blood, they are… unpredictable, and I was reluctant to call on them in any but the most dire circumstances, which I did not believe this to be. So I simply followed him, hoping to get slightly more of an idea of exactly what he was doing.

His walk had a certainty to it. I never once saw him consult a map, or pause to consider his destination. He knew exactly where he was going, and his steps were slow and implacable. There was… an inevitability to his movements, and I think that is when I realised he was simply serving The End, which I won’t pretend wasn’t a disappointment. But still, I thought if I could deal with him and save a few lives, I might as well.

He walked for some hours, until finally coming upon a small house down a cul-de-sac near Hackney Wick. It seemed… unremarkable, and had nothing to distinguish it from those that surrounded it. He walked up to the door and pushed it gently. It opened silently, and he walked inside. So I waited a minute or two, watching for any movement within, listening for any sound that might break the still, humid air. But there was nothing, and I followed him inside.

Justin Gough was sat in the main bedroom. His back pressed against the wall opposite a bed, where a middle-aged man lay sleeping. The room was quiet, and at first I thought there was no movement at all, but as I watched, I saw the face of the man in the bed contort and spasm, as though racked with awful nightmares, his chest heaving and convulsing as he struggled to breathe. I looked to the man I assumed to be his assailant, but to all appearances, it seemed like Justin Gough was also asleep, sat in the corner of that nondescript suburban bedroom. But then I saw his eyelids flicker, and I realised what was going on.

What is the line between a near-death experience and a dream? Perhaps you do leave yourself, brush against the afterlife and return, but… I don’t believe it. I believe they are both simply the firings of a brain we no longer have control over, and perhaps if you make contact with something terrible in one, it continues to live with you in the other. And perhaps it demands you infect others with your fate.

I was not quick enough to save the man who lived in that house. Truth be told, I didn’t especially try. I didn’t think I would be able to move quick enough to do so, and was more concerned with being quiet and thorough. The cutlery drawer was largely empty, but after a minute’s searching I did find what I was after: a long, metal skewer.

Did you know there are certain forms of brain injury that cut you off from your ability to dream? Ironically enough, it’s sometimes caused by carbon monoxide poisoning, but there is still no definitive answer about which part of the brain needs to be injured for it to happen. So I made the decision it was better to be on the safe side, as I pushed the point up past his eye, sliding it into that little gap between eyeball and tear duct, and up into his brain.

I knew it wouldn’t kill him, he’s too far from human for me to do so, but I thought that scrambling his brain a bit was probably my best bet. And I was right, as far as it goes. He survived what I did to him, and when the police picked him up after an ‘anonymous tip’ about a break-in, he was barely able to speak, and I very much hope I managed to sever his dreams.

I have no interest in pursuing this further, but given the mind’s remarkable aptitude for healing, not to mention the resilience of creatures like him, I cannot make any guarantees Justin Gough will remain in the state I left him. And it seems that, as he deals in dreams, it may be worth your while to keep an eye on the statements you take, in case he finds his way here. I’m sure you can take care of yourself, of course, but I thought it would be worth letting you know. Good luck, Gertrude. And enjoy the fireworks.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

This was found tucked into a hard case containing… many blocks of plastic explosive, kept by Gertrude Robinson in a storage unit that I can only assume has… extremely lax oversight. It is unclear if she ever read it.

You know, after my conversation with Gerard, I, I actually thought I was starting to get a handle on everything, how it works, the connections between it all. It is… strangely reassuring to have a statement where, once again, I find myself having… remarkably little idea what it’s talking about. Justin Gough was clearly an avatar of The End, but… I have no idea what else Dekker was alluding to.

So Gertrude knew Adelard Dekker as well? I wonder is there anyone connected to the supernatural that she was not on first name terms with? I suppose if you spend fifty years as the focal point of horrors, eventually everyone ends up knowing you. Or dead. Or… both.

I know there are more important things to be doing, but I did ask Basira to have a quick search for Justin Gough, see what might have happened to him. There are records of his residence in an East London care facility until 2015, when he disappears from their records. Several deaths among the staff apparently occurred at roughly the same time. And it will come as no surprise that the inquest returned a verdict of carbon monoxide poisoning in each case.

I’m not too concerned, to be honest, my dreams are, uh… well, let’s just say I don’t think they’re going be letting anyone else in any time soon.

End recording.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Anya Villette, regarding a cleaning job on Hill Top Road. Original statement given April 22nd, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I don’t know this place. They said I should come and talk to you. A few people did. People I thought I knew, but they were different. I should know this place, I think. I used to go to the Tate a lot when I lived in London, and I, I passed the building, but… I don’t know you people. Nothing makes sense anymore.

It was meant to be just a quick job. Since the divorce I’ve been back working as a cleaner, and for the last month or so John Hector Lettings in Oxford have been bringing me in to get student houses ready for next year’s occupants. It’s not always pleasant work. After all, students are not exactly careful tenants; I’ve had to spend more than one afternoon scraping and repainting bedroom walls for some soon-to-be-dropout that turned the room into a hotbox. But it pays the bills. Barely.

I guess this is why I was so keen when I got the call about Hill Top Road. A nice, simple job. No pulling out instant noodles from behind the oven. No post-grad party gunk to find behind the sofa. Just a newly built house that needed a good clean once the builders were finished. Hoover up some plaster dust, wipe down the counters, a bit of polish on the metal fittings… easy. If there were already beds in there, maybe I’d grab a quick nap, make up for all the unpaid overtime I’d had to put in steam cleaning the last house where some of them had made active use of the bedroom. All told I thought it was the break I’d earned, and not a moment too soon.

It was raining when I pulled into the house. Not heavy, but the sky was that soggy grey that lets you know the weather isn’t changing anytime soon. As a rule I don’t mind the rain too much, but there was nothing relaxing about this weather. No regular thump of droplets tapping on bin lids or windscreens; you just ended up damp and grumpy. I’ve been thinking back, trying to remember if I got any kind of… sense about that house. Whether the windows were darker than they should have been, or if the frame of the place was… heavier. I don’t know. Hard to tell, I was too busy trying to manoeuvre the keys without having to put my bag down on the waterlogged path. It wasn’t until I actually got through the door that anything seemed to be at all wrong.

Even then it was only small things. Easy to ignore. I’m not superstitious, never used to be at least, so how dim the lights were made me think the owners were cheap; maybe they’d decided to go all-in on those weak energy-saving bulbs. The cold? I just thought it was an empty house that hadn’t turned the heating on yet. The small movements of the dust covers… that was the first thing that actually caught my attention.

The owners of the house had already filled it with furniture. Not good furniture, of course: just the cheapest IKEA had that wouldn’t collapse under the weight of a textbook. It was all assembled, though, and… covered with thick sheets of white plastic, to try and keep the dust off. Not a strange sight in my line of work, so I just ignored it, and headed down to the kitchen to start wiping down the surfaces.

I don’t know why I always like to start in the kitchen; it sort of feels like the heart of a home, at least to me, and I like to begin there and work outwards. Or maybe I just like food, and by the time I start on a job, I’m usually already hungry for lunch. That said, the sort of houses I usually clean, I’m more likely to lose that appetite when I stumble on something in the kitchen. This one was already almost pristine, though. A bit of dust on the surfaces, some careless flecks of paint was the worst I had to contend with. Even the oven was spotless and new.

But as I was wiping down the sink, I sort of zoned out. The window in the kitchen looked out over the garden, and… I froze as I noticed that in the centre, there was a tree. It was still bare from the winter, and from the top of it, there were these eight thick branches, just stretching out at all angles, some… reaching up to the sky, and some… it felt like they were reaching towards me. It was almost black against the dark grey sky, and the rain made it shine. My mouth was dry, and I suddenly had this… vision in my head, of walking out the back door, and standing at the base of that tree, as those branches bent, and snapped, and came down to grab me. But I was in the kitchen, and I was still dry. I finished up quickly, and headed off to do the rest of the house.

I tried to ignore it, just told myself I was having a weird bit of paranoia. Getting myself worked up over nothing. I don’t believe in ghosts, you know, and even if I did, it was a new house. It’s not like anyone’s building over ancient burial grounds in East Oxford. But even then I was finding it hard to ignore the movements. Slight rustles in the dust sheets that covered the furniture. Shadows they made that didn’t… quite work with the shape they should be. Or this lump or angle, sometimes, so I’d wonder if they were just covering chairs. Whenever I turned around I swear I heard them shift, and when I looked back, I can’t be sure, but I think they would be different, covering something different. I never got the nerve up to take any of them off, though. I just pressed on, tried to get the place clean and finished as quick as I could. Living room, bathroom, upstairs bedrooms… it was almost getting dark by the time I was finished.

It was such a relief as I started to pack up my bag, and I was just about to zip it closed when I remembered the cupboard under the stairs. It hadn’t been included in the job list, but in most houses I cleaned I liked to give the storage spaces a bit of a tidy and a vacuum as well. It always brought up by my employers as ‘evidence of my thoroughness’, and I took a lot of pride in it. But in my hurry to be finished and out of Hill Top Road, I hadn’t even checked it. I looked at the small door, then back to my half-zipped bag, and… I decided to just take a quick look. Just a quick look. It was a new house. How dirty could it be?

Obviously it was my decision. I remember the little handle was warm. I don’t know if that’s jut my memory playing tricks on me, but I do remember that. It opened to reveal stairs going down into a basement. Nobody had mentioned a basement. Not when they gave me the job, not on the floor plan they’d given me; I’d had absolutely no idea it was there. I found my legs were shaking as my brain pushed forward one question over and over: do they expect me to clean down there?

I decided, again, just to have a look. Just a quick look. See if there was anything down there that did need my attention. Maybe it was already spotless, or maybe it hadn’t been tanked, and was still just bare brick and stone, too raw for me to do anything with anyway. I just had to check.

It was warmer down there, warmer every step, and I found myself brushing cobwebs from my face as I got further down, until at last there I was - stood in the cellar of Hill Top Road. There was just a very quick second of relief, of letting my breath out. I saw how damp it was, full of unfinished brickwork, definitely not something any estate agent would expect me to clean. And then I noticed the crack.

It seemed to split the floor right down the middle; it was jagged, vicious, like something had torn out the ground with a hook. It was maybe a foot across at its widest, and so dark inside it made my teeth ache. I’m not sure how I saw it. Thinking now I know that there wasn’t any light down there, but… that horrid gap was clear as day, darker than just the simple lack of light that surrounded it. And then I was at the edge looking down, and those eight spindly arms reaching up to pull me in. I couldn’t have screamed even if I wanted to.

I woke up in one of the chairs, the dust cover clinging to me like a cocoon. I threw it off, and ran out of that house, and I haven’t been back. But now… everything’s wrong. I went to clean that house on April the 23rd, 2009 which, according to all of you, is tomorrow. But it can’t be. That was two weeks ago. I’ve tried to talk to my friends about it. Those of my friends I can find, but they seem distant, like they don’t really know me. Everything is just… wrong. I can’t find my favourite coffee shop. And I don’t know who you people are.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Interesting. I’m not really sure what to do with this one. Martin brought it up, said he’d found one that related back to Hill Top Road, a thread that’s been nagging at me for a while, but… I mean, it seems straightforward enough, except… that it never happened. As far as I can tell, Anya Villette doesn’t exist. John Hector Lettings does seem to be a real estate agents in Oxford, but according to our enquiries they’ve never employed anyone by that name to work as a cleaner, nor are they currently responsible for the infamous house.

Basira found a couple of possibilities online that might have been her, but the two that almost matched, both professed complete ignorance to any of this. As far as we can tell, the house has no estate agent looking after it, and no current owner. Certainly no plans to lease it students. I’ve half a mind to just go down and have a look at it myself, but… I don’t know. Ever since it first came up I’ve felt like it would be… just a very bad idea.

We’ve been trying to get a closer look at the documents, figure out who technically owns the place, but… it’s been over year, and we’re still waiting. Haven’t really had the time to foll -

[FAINT METALLIC NOISES]
Ah…

[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH]
[SOUND OF WOODEN BOARD BEING MOVED ASIDE]
ARCHIVIST
Hello, Tim.

TIM
Oh god…

ARCHIVIST
Come in, please.

TIM
[Sigh, then faux polite] Good to see you, Boss.

How’ve you been?

ARCHIVIST
I’m not going to lie to you, Tim. It’s been a difficult few months.

TIM
[Deadpan] Good.

ARCHIVIST
And h - I would like to hear how you’ve been doing.

TIM
Me? Oh, I’ve been just fine. I’ll see you later.

ARCHIVIST
You’re sure? You’ve not - There is nothing you want to say to me.

TIM
Nothing with that thing here, no.


I have made a valiant effort, and I have failed. I am not a plumber.
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Interesting.

What do you think is listening?

TIM
What?

ARCHIVIST
[Strongly] What do you think is listening to the tapes?

TIM
Don’t do that.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry.

TIM
Don’t!

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, I didn’t-

TIM
And you know what I think. It’s that… the thing that runs the Institute. “The Watcher” or “The Eye” or whatever.

ARCHIVIST
I dis… I disagree. This whole place is a temple to The Eye, Tim. I don’t think the tape recorders make any difference.

TIM
[Viciously] Elias, then.

ARCHIVIST
In that case we’ll stick to talking about things he already knows.

TIM
Why are you so set on having it running?

ARCHIVIST
I…

Look, if you want my honest opinion -

TIM
I don’t.

ARCHIVIST
Whatever is on the other side of those tapes is just as invested in stopping the Circus as you are in avenging your brother.

TIM
…

You listened to it, then? My statement.

ARCHIVIST
I listened to all the tapes. I, I had no idea how much of a… a mess I left this place in, I-I-I’m sorry.

TIM
Bit of an invasion of privacy.

ARCHIVIST
I assume that’s a joke?

TIM
[Bitter laugh] Isn’t it just?

…

How did you know I was going to be here?

ARCHIVIST
Th-The others haven’t seen you in weeks, and you’ve still been using the computers here, accessing files and books… I know there are some exits to the tunnels outside the Institute, so I guessed you were using them to get in and out, avoiding any… tape recorders.

TIM
Okay, whatever. But how did you know I was going to be here, now?

ARCHIVIST
…

I just… did.

TIM
“You just did”? Great. Buy one spooky telepath manager, get one free, is it? Fan-tastic.

ARCHIVIST
That’s not what this is.

TIM
[Angry] Oh, and how about you read my mind now?

ARCHIVIST
Tim, that isn’t… I can’t.

TIM
‘Cause I can give you a clue. It ends in “off”.

ARCHIVIST
I… I assume you’ve been doing your own research into the Circus and the Unknowing. I would like to pool our knowledge.

TIM
So why don’t you ‘Archivist’ me, then? Just pull it straight out.

ARCHIVIST
Because I don’t want to. I am not your enemy, Tim.

TIM
[Dismissively] Like that matters. These things aren’t human. It’s… instinct. You can’t not.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I’m still me, Tim.

[TIM HUFFS]
I’m still me.

[TIM EXHALES DEEPLY]
TIM
…

You know what? You’re actually right.

ARCHIVIST
What?

TIM
You’re the only one.

ARCHIVIST
I- S-Sorry, I do-don’t follow.

…

Tim?

TIM
Do you know why I avoid the others?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, y-you said, the tapes…

TIM
No. How can I be sure who they are?

ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND)
Oh…

TIM
You know how long that thing pretended to be Sasha?

ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND)
Oh god.

TIM
And I had no idea? I knew Sasha for years, we…

I don’t know Martin as well as I knew her. I barely know what Melanie and Basira look like. Or that weird murder-cop. How the hell am I supposed to be sure of any of them?

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Tim, I… I didn’t realise. I-I didn’t think.

I’m sorry.

TIM
I mean, there’s worms and hallways and clowns, and… In some ways it doesn’t even register. Like, just another spook. But I can’t trust them. I’m going to destroy the Circus that took my brother, and I can’t trust them to help.

ARCHIVIST
And me?

TIM
[Snorts] Well, if you’re trying to spy on us, you’re doing a pretty shitty job. You haven’t been here for months.

ARCHIVIST
That’s not fair! Sometimes I was kidnapped.

TIM
Which is not a good look for a spy, is it?

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

TIM
Anyway, you’re a spook too now, aren’t you? This place loves you too much to let you get swapped.

ARCHIVIST
What about Elias? Surely he’s the same?

TIM
Oh, yeah. Great idea. [Sarcastically] Let’s just all trust Elias.

ARCHIVIST
Point taken.

TIM
[Sigh] Screw it.

…

I know where they’re doing it. Th-The ritual. And I think they’re almost ready.

ARCHIVIST
R-right. Where?

TIM
In the House of Wax, in Great Yarmouth.

ARCHIVIST
Ohhh… I thought it might be there, but th-the others, we, we couldn’t find any evidence of, of movement or, well, life.

TIM
I had to wait almost two weeks. But it’s there.

ARCHIVIST
Why do you think they’re doing it so soon?

TIM
Skin. That’s what they need right? They tried to take yours.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

TIM
Well, last week they went on a couple of field trips to a pair of cemeteries.

ARCHIVIST
Who did they take?

TIM
New graves. No flowers. The first had a name on, no dates, no inscription. “George Icarus”.

ARCHIVIST
I, I don’t know the name. Who was the other?

…

Tim?

TIM
Gertrude.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

TIM
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I… I thought she was cremated?!

TIM
I guess not.

[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES DEEPLY]
ARCHIVIST
So they did get an Archivist’s skin after all.

TIM
[Snidely] So, what’s the plan, Boss?

ARCHIVIST
Heh. I, er… I think you’re going to like it, actually.

TIM
[Unconvinced] Oh yeah?

ARCHIVIST
Should be quite… cathartic. I just need to… confirm a few details.

TIM
Fine. But you don’t cut me out!

ARCHIVIST
I won’t.

TIM
I -

ARCHIVIST
I promise!

Now, um, if you’ll excuse me.

TIM
Oh, er… er, right.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well, you’re not the only one that knows his way around the tunnels, so…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[DOWN IN THE TUNNELS]
ARCHIVIST
[Sotto voce] Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen. Sixteen.

[WHISTLES]
[FOOTSTEPS]
BASIRA
All clear?

ARCHIVIST
[Surprised] Uh, yes. Yes! Uh, all clear.

[MORE FOOTSTEPS]
BASIRA
Sorry, got a bit lost. Don’t know how you find your way around down here.

ARCHIVIST
Practice.

You alright, Daisy?

DAISY
[NONCOMMITAL SOUNDS]
BASIRA
Don’t think either of us like it down here.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, well, no, me neither. Feels…

DAISY
Empty.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

BASIRA
That it?

ARCHIVIST
[Smilingly] Yes!

DAISY
How long have you had that shirt?

BASIRA
Um…

ARCHIVIST
What?

DAISY
That shirt. You get it in China?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, A-America. I had to borrow it, there was… there was blood.

DAISY
Sure.

BASIRA
Why?

DAISY
Hmm.

[CONFUSED SOUNDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
BASIRA
Shall I…

I’ll leave you two alone. I… need to… have that chat with Elias.

[DEPARTING FOOTSTEPS]
ARCHIVIST
Right. Right.

Yes.

…

So… how’ve you been?

DAISY
[Emotionless] Fine. Killing mannequins for Elias. And a clown. It’s been alright.

ARCHIVIST
Has he… said anything about the plan?

DAISY
No. Is there one?

ARCHIVIST
Umm… Sort of.

[SOUND OF CASE BEING UNLOCKED]
DAISY
[Incredulous] Ohhh. That real?

ARCHIVIST
You tell me.

DAISY
[Excitedly] Where’d you get this?

ARCHIVIST
G-Gertrude left it. Er, apparently for, er, this exact situation.

DAISY
Where did she get it?

ARCHIVIST
I-I find myself asking that question a lot.

DAISY
So… this ritual, you’re just going to blow it up?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, as long as you know how to… I mean, you can use this stuff?

DAISY
[Contentedly] Yeah. I reckon I can.

ARCHIVIST
Good.

DAISY
So, do you have a plan?

ARCHIVIST
Um… We’re working on it.

…

You think she’s found him by now?

DAISY
Maybe. Maybe he’s not watching anyway.

ARCHIVIST
I-I just… I feel safer if I think he’s distracted. Is the… the rest of it…?

DAISY
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
And Martin… he’s okay with it?

DAISY
It was his idea.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. You think it’ll work?

DAISY
No idea. If you can get me or Basira the - [tails off frustratedly]

ARCHIVIST
What?

DAISY
Tape!

ARCHIVIST
Oh, yeah.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Mikaele Salesa, regarding an antique meat grinder in his possession during the autumn of 1999. Original statement given January 4th 2007. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So it’s another statement is it? Like I owe you something? Even though I warned you the handle might have splinters, that you should always be wearing gloves if you’re going to try firing it. And you knew where it was from, the signs of rage and violence to be watching for. So far, I don’t see how it’s my fault, and I don’t consider myself liable.

That said, I don’t want you thinking I don’t appreciate you keeping it quiet. You all have been one of my most stable customers, and I’d hate to sour the business. So I suppose if it’s a statement you’re wanting… it’s no inconvenience to me. I don’t sleep well anyway.

So what’s it going to be? Could go over what got me started in the business; that’s a story I haven’t told you yet. Though there’s less in the telling than you might expect. My first job was working with Jurgen Leitner, but I got out of that years before the man met his fate. Started looking for the exit about the time that I saw Warren get literal y eaten by a book. And before you start cross-referencing, looking for some newly-birthed monster called Warren, I don’t mean eaten like that. It left behind the leg. Don’t know any transformations that leave behind your leg.

So I gave Leitner my walking papers, and struck out on my own. I had no intention of fol owing in his footsteps with the books, and when I began it was just normal, high-end antiques I was moving. Leitner’s client list, which I’d taken the liberty of copying, did me proud. The man had a knack for sniffing out moneyed fools with no sense of the value of things. Combine that with my own skill at evading a lot of the ‘legal entanglements’ the trade can get caught up in, and making money was not much of a challenge. Once or twice one of them would try to sell me a book, but when I learn a lesson, I learn it to my bones.

After a while, some of those familiar with Leitner and his library approached me with some of the more… unusual items they had locked away. The sort of thing they’d have sold to him if they’d been bound in paper, rather than ceramic or wood. I didn’t want anything to do with them, not to begin with, but you’ve seen for yourself that the artifacts are not so volatile as the books, and they fetch a pretty penny, so eventually I started dealing in them as well.

So there’s that. But I don’t think that’s the sort of statement you’re after is it? No. You want something a little ghoulish. Something to stick your teeth into. Fine. I’ve got one. You see, in this game there are a few rules it’s a good idea to keep to if you’re looking to stay alive. One of my mine, is that only I take stock of the merchandise. You want to know how I came by this rule? I know you do.

So there was a man worked on my ship. Let’s call him ‘Cook’. Not his real name of course, but real enough for this and, thinking about it, it’s unlikely he signed up with his real name anyway. Now Cook, his main job was what you’d expect: working in the galley to keep my small crew fed. But on a ship like that, all of you pitch in all of the time, even me, and cooking a few meals a day doesn’t stop you having other duties. And one of those duties was checking on the cargo, making sure none of the breakables had managed to, wel , break. Any other crew I’d have been worried about theft, but I’d been with most of these for two or three years, so there plenty of trust there.

This must have been some time in September, back in ‘99, and for most of the journey Cook had been checking on the merchandise with no problem at all. But on the last week or so of that voyage, he’d been taking longer and longer, and it was starting to affect meal times, and so on one of those occasions I made my way down to check on him. And, of course, I found him staring into one of the boxes.

The item in question that we were transporting for sale was an old antique meat grinder. The sort with a heavy vice you clamp on the table, and a nice big crank for twisting the screw, push the meat from the funnel along and into the mincer. It was a rusty old thing, all heavy iron and brand names worn away to nothing. If it wasn’t for the fact that it was near two hundred years old it would have been more valuable as scrap. Even with the age I wasn’t confident we could shift it. Without looking at my records, I couldn’t tell you where I picked it up, and I’m sure it wasn’t pointed out to me as one of the weirder items. No warnings or nothing like that.

But Cook, he couldn’t get enough of it. He was staring at the thing, a look of longing in his eyes. With another decade under my belt, I now know how stupid my next action was, but I used to consider myself someone who looks after my crew, and Cook seemed real taken with the thing. I honestly wasn’t sure how wel it was going to sell anyway, so I named a fair price and offered to take it out of his wages if he wanted to claim the grinder for his own. He said yes immediately, and was mighty thankful of my generosity. He grabbed the thing like it weighed nothing at all, which was the first clue I took proper notice of, and sprinted off to make lunch.

That night dinner was hamburgers. I made a joke to Cook about him getting good use out of the meat grinder already, and he laughed, told me it was from frozen, but looking back now I don’t think he laughed as long or as hard as I might have liked. The meat was good, juicy, and honestly it didn’t taste as if it had been frozen at all. The sausages the next night were the same.

Cook was different as well. Whenever I passed him I got a little bit of a smell. Like a raw steak just hitting the grill. Not an unpleasant smell, not at al , but certainly one I’d never noticed on him before. Occasionally, if he was wearing white, I could see small spots or smears of blood just at the edges. It might have been his own, working on a ship you get your share of cuts, but after a couple of days it became a little bit on the… unnerving side. He smiled more as well, and I’m not sure, but I feel like that might have been the thing that tipped me off the most that something was up with him. He’d never been the sort to… smile.

The meaty dinners kept coming, and I was began to wonder a bit about where he was getting it all. I talked to Leigh about it, who generally deals with supplies and acts as a sort of quartermaster, and she told me she’d definitely stocked up on plenty of canned and frozen meats for Cook before we set out, though only he’d been keeping track of what we actually had left. But it wasn’t that I thought he didn’t have the meat available, it’s that I just didn’t know how he seemed to make it all taste so fresh. By that point I was pretty much convinced that whatever was going on with Cook was outside the area of the natural, and that usually traced back to one of the items I was carrying for sale. The fact that I’d just given something to Cook, well it tracked too closely for me to not come to some… obvious conclusions.

I started to avoid eating the meat I was served, kept my feeding to the small portion of vegetables that he’d add to the side, more a garnish than anything else. It didn’t escape my notice that Cook was also hiding increasing amounts of his arm inside his coat when he spoke to me. First fingers, then the hand, then final y he kept the whole forearm tucked under his jacket so I couldn’t get a decent look. When I thought about it I’d get visions of Cook slowly reaching in, cranking the handle wildly with the other arm, while he pushed his skin and flesh into the whirring iron, mouth open and smiling, as it began to come through the mincer grate like a string of meaty bubbles. It made me feel ill, but I just couldn’t get it out of my head.

So a few days out of port, I snuck into the galley when he wasn’t in. I mean, it was my ship, so I shouldn’t have felt like a thief sneaking around, but I did. Secured over the hobs was a bubbling pot of water that Cook was gradually turning into stock. At first I didn’t know what was it that made me so uncomfortable about the sight. Then I realised that he was making it the same way you make most meat stocks: he was boiling up some bones. And I am a hundred percent certain that Leigh did not supply us with bones, especially not the sort of bones I was seeing in that pot.

The meat grinder was there, clamped onto the side, a ways away from the main counter, and with no sign that it had ever been used. But there was something to it that alarmed me. When it had been in the box it was old, rust creeping at the edges. Not something you’d want to put raw meat through. But now the thing was spotless, like new, and as I got closer that… same smell that wafted off Cook got stronger and stronger.

Now I’m not one for hiding, or dodging a confrontation, but if this was happening like I thought, I really wanted to catch Cook in the act, see exactly what he was doing. So I went, and I waited until he was in the kitchen, preparing dinner, and I just walked in. Well, I tried to walk in, but Cook had locked the door. I had my own key of course, but I was also aware of how flimsy the lock was, so in the interest of time, I just kicked it open.

In many ways, what I found in there was exactly what I expected, but in other ways… I don’t know. Cook did have his right arm up to the elbow in the mincer, his left hand working the crank, around and around. I could hear the sound of bone and flesh grinding, but there was nothing coming out the other end of the machine. Then I saw what was lying on the counter. It was his arm, neatly sliced off and butchered into cuts of meat, the bone shining white through the blood and dark skin. And I remembered he’d promised us pork chop tonight.

Looking back at Cook, I saw the ecstasy on his face, with just a hint of manic terror, as he turned the crank, and a new arm came out, bit by bit, raw and glistening. It didn’t look like his old one, but there was a part of me sure it would taste just the same.

It didn’t look like he’d even noticed me breaking through the door. He was wrapped up in his own sickness. So I walked over and grabbed him by the shoulder, screaming to know what the hell he thought he was doing. That snapped him out of it alright, and he lunged at me with a sudden cry, ripping the lower part of his arm back off, and leaving it sitting there, ragged in the grinder. His left hand went to the boiling stock, blistering and peeling as Cook reached in and pulled out one of the larger bones, swinging it wildly about the place. I don’t speak any Croatian, but given the way he was salivating I’m pretty sure he chanting something about dinner.

But in the end, he only had one arm, and wasn’t thinking properly. His movements were clumsy, like a drunk, and even at his best I’ve killed worse than Cook. He went down easy. That’s another good thing about having a crew you can trust. They tossed him overboard, and cleaned up without asking any sort of prying questions. Of course they belly-ached about another week on canned food, but I think they understood the alternative would have been worse.

Story has a happy ending, though. I managed to sell the grinder to some rich Canadian gourmet, who I assume was bored of the standard options for his meals. Didn’t even have to leave anything out. Of course, he disappeared about a year later, and they never found the body. But there’s no way to prove that had anything to do with me. Besides, it’s not like he was paying me in instalments.

ARCHIVIST
Statements ends.

[DEEP SIGH]
I suppose in some ways it’s strange I’m not a vegetarian yet, what with everything I know. But… I rather think someone in my position has to take their small pleasures where they can, and if it occasionally delights some grotesque meat-god, well… c’est la vie.

So Salesa was one of Leitner’s old assistants. That makes some sense, I suppose. The sort of small revelation that a month ago would have filled me with wild conjecture. Now it seems, I don’t know, almost trite. Filling in the puzzle, but not touching on those parts of the picture I still don’t understand.

Maybe it’s not that. Maybe it’s just this… stillness, the anticipation. I - We know what’s happening, we know what we have to do about it, we even have something approaching a plan for once. And while it’s a welcome change not to be desperately praying for a deus ex machina, I don’t really know how to handle the waiting. Whatever Elias has Daisy doing, it seems to be working. Nothing’s made a move on me or the Institute since I returned, and last time I saw her there was the distinct smell of burnt plastic. So I suppose I’m safe. But everything just feels like… killing time, running down the clock. I don’t think I like it.

God, do I - do I miss being chased? That’s depressing. No, it’s… I just miss feeling like I’m moving, like I -

[KNOCK, KNOCK]
[Calls] Come i -

[KNOCK, KNOCK]
[More sombrely] Come in.

[A NEW DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
[Sharply] What do you want?

HELEN
Not sure. To talk.

ARCHIVIST
You’re keeping her face, then.

HELEN
I am Helen.

ARCHIVIST
Don’t pretend to be people I know. Knew.

HELEN
I’m not pretending.

ARCHIVIST
You’re not Helen Richardson.

HELEN
I wasn’t Michael, either.

ARCHIVIST
Who do you see? When you, you look at yourself? There are mirrors in those corridors of yours. What do you see?

HELEN
I don’t.

ARCHIVIST
…

Why are you here?

HELEN
I… I’m not… I’m not entirely sure. I’m… having trouble. I don’t think I was meant to be Helen.

ARCHIVIST
I’m - I don’t understand.

HELEN
Neither do I. Michael was… pulling away. His anger was interfering. I don’t, I don’t think I have a choice but to be Helen. Self is difficult.

ARCHIVIST
Michael, he, uh, he, he wasn’t meant to be you either, though, was he?

HELEN
No.

ARCHIVIST
…

So…

[Slowly] Why are you here?

HELEN
I took someone.

ARCHIVIST
You t -

Wh… L-Like Michael ate you?

HELEN
I took a man, wandering the halls of an old tenement. He’s dead now, he never even came close to finding me. It was nourishing, but…

ARCHIVIST
But…

HELEN
I didn’t like it.

ARCHIVIST
You d - [Sigh] I’m not sure I follow.

HELEN
I feel… wrong. I feel this -

ARCHIVIST
[Angry] Why are you telling me this?!

HELEN
Something happened when I became ‘Helen’. She wasn’t right, she wasn’t ready.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t…

HELEN
Before, talking to you made Helen feel better.

ARCHIVIST
You’re not that Helen!

HELEN
I just want… I just want to feel better.

ARCHIVIST
…

I don’t believe you.

HELEN
You don’t?

ARCHIVIST
Wh-what? Why should I believe… a-a-any of this? You’ve told me over and over that you’re… what was the phrase? The ‘throat of delusion’? All of this is -

HELEN
I have never told you a lie, Archivist. I wouldn’t dare. I, I just thought you might understand.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… How could I possibly…

HELEN
We’re both changing, Archivist. I had hoped, that together -

ARCHIVIST
[Furious] Get out.

HELEN
Archivist…

ARCHIVIST
Get. Out.

HELEN
Fine.

[A NEW DOOR CREAKS CLOSED]
[DEEP SIGH]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Thank you all for coming.

[VARIOUS SIGHS AND EXASPERATED NOISES]
ARCHIVIST
Well, you said it was important.

ELIAS
Will Melanie not be joining us?

BASIRA
No. She won’t.

ELIAS
Very well. I suppose that’s understand -

ARCHIVIST
What do you want?

ELIAS
To help. Do you have your recorder running?

DAISY
‘course he does.

ARCHIVIST
I… yes.

ELIAS
Well, then, I’ll speak clearly. You will soon be attempting to stop something few have ever witnessed and fewer still have survived.

ARCHIVIST
Not alone.

BASIRA
We’re, um, I think we’re all going.

ELIAS
Yes. And I believe your plan - um, simplistic as it may be - does have a reasonable chance of working.

ARCHIVIST
Well, thank you.

MARTIN
Sorry, sorry, did we… I thought we’d only actually got as far as, well, we sneak in, plant bombs, when they’re… distracted?

ARCHIVIST
Detonate them when the ritual starts; they’re vulnerable.

BASIRA
I mean. I’ve got some plans of the museum, and the area around it, but, yeah. That’s. That’s it.

DAISY
It should work. It doesn’t need to be fancy.

ELIAS
Well, quite. But given there is every likelihood but some or all of you might end up confronting the Stranger in a rather direct manner, I thought it best you have an idea of what you might encounter.

BASIRA
Oh.

ELIAS
During the difficulties with your initial absence, John, I took Gertrude’s tapes into my safekeeping.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I thought as much.

ELIAS
There is one I feel it may be wise for you to hear. All of you. If I may?

[VARIOUS SIGHS AND EXASPERATED NOISES; SOMEONE MUTTERS “FINE”]
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Case 7870211. Abraham Janssen. Incident occurred in the Court Theatre Buda, October 1787. Statement taken from journal entry, dated the 2nd of November of that year. Committed to tape on the 4th of October, 2013. Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
Some months have passed now since the sights and sounds that excited in me that unknown and hideous mania. Yet still my hand shakes in the writing of it, such that I can scarce understand myself the marks I leave upon the page. I would hold myself the most ill-used of men, were I not certain of others who left that theatre with wounds far graver than a tremor. I curse the name of Wolfgang von Kempelen and all his vile machinery, and there is no greater hope within me than that I should never again be required to lay eyes upon the Mechanical Turk.

I have always refrained from writing of it, but some years ago, at its creation, Kempelen prevailed upon me to play the Turk myself. I agreed, considering it a grand old joke, and a worthy use of my aptitude for chess. And some aptitude I had, indeed. In my youth, I even played a match against Philidor himself, in Old Slaughter’s coffee shop, though he thrashed me soundly.

Most who would dismiss the Turk as a simple ruse or deception would posit that only a child could have crawled inside the base of it. But, at almost half a century, I was quite delighted to work my way between the gears and play the venerable puppetmaster to Wolfgang’s infamous chess-playing automaton.

Most who would discover that a human mind directed the Turk found that fact cause enough to dismiss the marvel of the thing. But to do so would have been a grave disservice to Kempelen’s singular skill. For, though I may have chosen the movements, and played the game that unfolded above my head, the motions of the machine were the result of an ingenious array of gears and mechanisms that I could never hope to understand. It was an astounding feat of engineering, even if the mind behind it could not be replicated by clockwork and springs.

At least, not when it was first constructed.

I must not, however, allow my regard for Wolfgang’s intellect to distort the most appalling horror that his creations precipitated upon that stage. Nor to hide his complicity and guilt in what occurred.

He was a strange man. For as long as I knew him, his manner caused me disquiet, and I attribute the continuation of our acquaintance in no small part to our difference in language. We had some commonality in French, but I often felt there to be much nuance in his words that was simply not conveyed between two men, neither of whom was speaking his mother tongue. Indeed, on some few occasions when I observed him conversing in Hungarian or German, the expressions I observed upon the faces of his interlocutors were invariably those of discomfort or alarm. Wolfgang von Kempelen had within him some strange dream, I think. Some secret ambition, that might be glimpsed when his eye fell upon his automata. But it always eluded me.

Our initial meeting was civil, even pleasant. He had by then completed his construction of the Turk, and had requested several of his compatriots to seek out those who might have some small skill at the game of chess. I was at the time traveling in Austria, and introductions were made by a mutual acquaintance by the name of Lanthorn. Wolfgang explained to me the concept. That I would be secreted within the base of the machine, and direct the figure on how to play the game taking place upon the table. I agreed almost immediately.

Perhaps I would have had more reservations, had I known the unveiling would take place before the Empress Maria Theresa. Or if, when I agreed, I had actually laid my eyes upon the Mechanical Turk.

What description of it should I give? Should I speak of its costume, the rich Ottoman colors, lined with fine fur? Or the dreadful stillness of its dark shining face, the unmoving painted eyes that met mine and could not see me recoil? The torso simply ended as it disappeared below the table, and when I held my nerve enough to climb into the tiny chamber below it, some small part of my soul cried out that I was devoured within the belly of the cruel device.

Despite this, our exhibition to the Empress was a triumph, and I retreated from it both elated and utterly unsuspected. Indeed, such was the breadth of my success, it carried me through another year, traveling with Wolfgang and operating the Turk. I will not pretend that there was no joy to be had in my position; both displaying the marvelous engineering, and using my own prowess at the game of chess to fool great crowds of onlookers. Yet even then, nothing could fully quiet that odd anxiety I felt when I looked upon the Turk. Nor the strange and intricate dreams I had of it.

But eventually, my business in London required my return, and Wolfgang had other projects to which he wished to devote his attention. Most notably, a grotesque speaking machine, that he insisted would someday be capable of mastering human speech. I saw many of his designs. The bellows that aped the work of lungs, the wooden box of valves and pipes, and that most grotesque mouth he had constructed of some awful undulating substance he claimed was derived from an Indian tree. To dissuade him from his conviction that it would someday be capable of rendering intelligible speech was impossible. But hearing the mournful wail that came from the spasmodic thing he called a mouth, I fervently prayed I would never have to be there when it did so.

A prayer that went unanswered.

Wolfgang von Kempelen and his automata were far from my mind when I received the invitation from him, some fifteen or sixteen years having passed since we had any cause to forgather. I was once again in Austria, through coincidence, and received his letter in the dying days of summer, imploring me to attend a grand performance at the newly completed Court Theatre of Buda, many miles east in Budapest. It was not an insignificant journey from Vienna, but Wolfgang’s letter pleaded that I be there. I was, so it would have me believe, indispensable in my attendance, as “the oldest friend of the Turk.”

This line, I will confess, filled me with an apprehension that bordered almost on bone-deep fear. Though at the time I had no cause to heed such a feeling. My reason told me there was nothing to this but an oddly insistent invitation from an old friend, and I resolved to attend, if only to conquer the unaccountable terror that had taken residence within my heart. A terror, I now know, I should have heeded in every respect.

I shall waste no time detailing my journey to Budapest, and all my numerous failures to locate Wolfgang once I arrived. I did make some small inquiries about the court theatre, and learnt something of its history. Namely, that it had formerly been a Carmelite monastery, until Joseph II had had it dissolved three years prior, and commissioned Kempelen to convert it into the city’s first theatre. The cells had now been taken for the actors dressing, and the crypt remade into a trap room beneath the stage, which had, itself, been placed where the high altar of the chapel once stood. Perhaps this should have stirred some further apprehension within me. But the changing fortunes of Eastern churches seem so far away from Wolfgang and his strange machines that I paid it hardly any mind.

The date came at last, and it was with no small trepidation that I made my way to the Court Theatre of Buda. No tickets had been issued to me, nor had I seen any way in which they might have been acquired. But upon my approach I noted several other figures, finely-garbed, making their way towards the theatre with the expressions that mirrored my own.

The doors of the theatre were open, and standing at either side of each entrance were things that, on first appraisal, appeared to be men. As I approached, however, I recognized the stiff motions and lifeless faces I had marked so sharply on the Turk. Dressed as gaudy footmen, automata silently gestured us inside, with unnatural jerky motions of their arms and heads, so violent that I would have thought it no surprise had they been hurled from their sockets. More were within, and I was struck by the absence of any flesh and blood ushers. Everywhere I turned, there seemed to be more ticking, whirring figures of clockwork, wood, and metal.

Seeking some reassurance, I tried to make some comment to another guest beside me, but found a cruel brass hand, awful in its strength, gripping me by the shoulder, and leading me away. I was walked to a balcony where I was, I supposed, to be seated. Fearful and confused, I acquiesced to the silent instructions of what I had begun to consider my captors. Even when other, equally-alarmed, spectators were seated beside me, I refrained from addressing them, feeling as I did the unchanging faces of those mechanical beings staring down at me.

Before each seat, there stood a small metal cage, within which hung a minute mechanical bird as might be used to delight children. But the angles of the creatures had been worked to a razor’s sharpness. And there was something in the metal orbs that stood for eyes that I could not bring myself to look at. The theater fell silent every seat filled with quiet watchers, curious as to what might be about to take place, but dreading the answer we were to receive.

Then all eyes fell upon a figure in the center of the stage, and I immediately recognized the Mechanical Turk, sat at its false table. Its head raised itself slowly, shuddering from side to side, and looked out over the assembled crowd. Its coat was not as I had seen it, the fine fur now gone, and in its stead something hairy, coarse, and brown that hung loosely about its shoulders.

There was a single nod, and a crack like brittle steel. And every false bird began to sing. It was not the gentle chimes of a hidden music box. Rather, the horrendous piping wail of creatures in pain, at such a pitch and volume that it seemed no two birds could be anything but discordant. Had I dared raise an arm, I would have covered my ears, but I’m certain that would have been no protection.

As the sound echoed through my skull, I saw the Turk lift something, inch by inch, over its head. A long, curved sword was gripped in its rigid fingers, the point aimed squarely at the chessboard in the table before it. The arm rose as the chirping intensified to a scream. Then came a single, swift downward motion, of such force that it pierced right through the wood, and buried the blade deep into the space beneath.

The birds ceased their infernal chorus for a long moment, as blood began to flow gently out from beneath the base, pooling under that device that had haunted my dreams for fifteen years. Then they began again, louder and more furious than before. At this, the machine moved once more, faster now, and with a shaking and shuddering that did nothing to slow its motion, it placed something upon the table. I saw bellows, a wooden box, and a soft and hideous throat that seemed to twist and pucker on its own.

Then the Mechanical Turk did something that I do not believe will ever fully leave my thoughts, no matter how fervently I might wish it. It stood up. It had no legs, and made no secret of. Yet still it stood, stepping away from the table that was its very being. And it began to dance.

As it did so, the bellows left upon the bleeding table started to pump, and I heard again that mournful wail of Wolfgang’s speech machine, as the end of it flailed and bulged until at last it shrieked its words to the audience. I do not know what it said, and I thank almighty God that I speak no Hungarian.

There was then a moment of absolute nothing, wherein I swear that none of us existed within the world. When I returned to being, the mouth upon the altar was speaking English, but I no longer understood it and I cried to the jailer in a language all my own to let me out of my chair. But the chair was nothing but a stone, and his face was too much of skin not to scream. The wooden man in the seat next to me tried to seize my hand, but I no longer possessed any, so I curled my legs into a fist and struck it again and again until my eyes were full of sweet sherry, and the part of me that sang no hymns bit down and choked upon the soft wood.

I staggered, falling up onto the door, and opening it to a screaming clockwork heart, that begged me to stop as I unscrewed it from its moorings, and set it adrift upon the sky that dropped away before me. Nothing was anything, and nobody was what they did not pretend to be. I desperately wished to cry, but no longer had any understanding of what a tear was.

And then there came a noise I did know. Into the nothing that was everything came a thing that was most clearly a battle cry, though I did not understand the words of it, only the sense.

I looked away to see, inside, a man who was a soldier. I was sure he was a soldier, and he was nothing but a soldier. His blades were blades and forged for killing and his mouth was a mouth and was made to order death. Beside him were four who were also soldiers, though their weeping eyes were empty sockets, and the captain led them by a rope around their necks. They dragged a thing that wasn’t a thing, but instead a mouth upon a tree that hated the Turk and all it brought upon the world.

The soldier carved and cursed its way through a horde of vicious clockwork flesh men, with faces that cannot not have been my father, and shouted a command to the sightless followers that even I understood to be an order of attack. They took the burning sun from their pockets, and placed it upon the tree, and the mouth spat a curse so heavy it flew towards the altar, and struck the Turk square in the chest.

And, in that moment, everything was real once again. The sightless men, and the unknown soldier in his bloodied uniform, turned and dragged the cannon from the theater, paying no mind to the carnage that surrounded them on every side, the limp and unmoving bodies of automata and patron alike, nor the destruction they had wrought upon the stage. The cries and pleading of the wounded and dying rose up like an awful chorus, where before the air had been filled with the piping of metal birds. And, God may damn me for a coward, but I ran.

GERTRUDE
Final comments.

The Stranger and its ritual have proved remarkably hardy in many ways. Resistant to most of the standard interferences, and flexible in such a way that while the Unknowing is relatively easy to delay, full disruption seems borderline impossible. And yet, here we see what I assume to be an avatar of the Slaughter end an almost fully-realized ritual with, if not ease, then, at the very least, a direct simplicity.

Perhaps… that’s it. Could it be that the closer the Stranger comes to emerging, the more damaging a physical disruption to its focus becomes…? And more research is needed, but if that’s true, then the task becomes at once less complicated, and significantly harder. Disrupting the others has been successful largely because I was able to do so before they had reached any form of culmination. And from the description of Abraham Janssen, I would not be confident enough in my senses to attempt something similar once the Unknowing has become in earnest.

Hmm. It could probably stand as a solid Plan B, at the very least. And I might make inquiries about getting my hands on some… appropriate ordinance. This also confirms that they’re still using that ancient skin as a focus item. If it wasn’t destroyed by cannon fire, I imagine it will take some effort on my part to do so, but I’m now sure I know where they’re keeping it. And if I’m able to take care of it, that may buy me a reasonable amount of time to research alternative methods.

All I can say for sure is that when the Unknowing begins, I certainly don’t want to be inside it.

[CLICK] [CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
…right.

BASIRA
That’s it, then?

ELIAS
It’s unlikely to be identical. The Stranger is not known for its, um, consistency.

BASIRA
…but something like that? We can’t trust what we see.

ELIAS
The familiar may seem strange, the strange, familiar.

ARCHIVIST
One long category error.

MARTIN
Well, isn’t - I thought that was what the Stranger wants, you know, for us to doubt everything.

ARCHIVIST
No one said it was going to be easy.

ELIAS
Brilliant. I have been doing my best to prepare you, John, to see. You should hopefully have it a bit easier than the others.

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] Another of my “powers?”

ELIAS
More… an aspect of your becoming.

DAISY
You don’t say.

ELIAS
Uh… right. Regardless, it should, I hope, give you an edge. Otherwise, I would never suggest you go yourself.

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] What about Martin?

MARTIN
What about me?!

ARCHIVIST
He should stay behind.

MARTIN
What?! Why!?

ELIAS
[overlapping] Really?

ARCHIVIST
Too many people might attract attention

MARTIN
No, no! I can help! I’ve been reading the statements!

ELIAS
Quite right. Probably best he does stay behind.

BASIRA
What, so you have a backup if John doesn’t make it?

ELIAS
I’m sure that won’t be necessary -

MARTIN
[unhappy noises, overlapping] Hey! Wh-what, what!? No!

ARCHIVIST
Martin, just… you can do more good here.

MARTIN
What, sat around drinking tea until the world ends?! Or, you know, it doesn’t. We hope.

ARCHIVIST
Melanie’s not coming either. I think… I think she’ll need you here.

MARTIN
…fine.

ELIAS
Glad that sorted! Now, unless there’s anything else?

ARCHIVIST
Not if, uh… no.

ELIAS
Excellent. Well, it’s a three-hour trip up to Great Yarmouth. I had Rosie book you all into a bed-and-breakfast near the museum.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

ELIAS
Oh, and, uh, John. Technically, I can’t stop you, but I would heavily advise against bringing any… rogue elements.

MARTIN
You can just say “Tim.”

ARCHIVIST
I will take it under advisement.

ELIAS
Hm. Anyway, don’t worry about staying in contact, I’ll know when it starts.

ARCHIVIST
Naturally.

ELIAS
Oh, that reminds me. Make sure you keep any receipts for expenses, assuming you wish to claim them back.

ARCHIVIST
And assuming we don’t, you know, die.

ELIAS
Yes. If you die, I’m afraid you probably won’t be able to claim your expenses. Now, if you’ll excuse me?

[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
[TIRED SIGHS]
BASIRA
Do you think he bought it?

MARTIN
We’ll talk about it later.

ARCHIVIST
I doubt there’ll be time, we need to go.

MARTIN
It’s fine. We’ve got this, okay?

ARCHIVIST
…Okay.

DAISY
Come on.

BASIRA
Yeah, sure.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
So. He doesn’t want you there.

TIM
And you?

ARCHIVIST
I… would rather have you where I can see you.

TIM
Good.

ARCHIVIST
You listen to the tape?

TIM
Yep. Sounds like fun.

ARCHIVIST
Do I need to be worried about you?

TIM
You reading my mind again, boss?

ARCHIVIST
I’m watching your face. Do you - are you going to keep it together?

TIM
Look. If you’re worried I’m gonna go all… red rum and start hacking up random waxworks, don’t be. I’m not gonna give us away. I want this to work.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

TIM
But I don’t think it will. So I’m gonna take that axe of yours, and when it all goes wrong, I’m going down swinging. And when I do, you’d better take the chance and stay out of my way.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. I’m just… [sigh] Okay.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jonathan Sims, head archivist of the Magnus Institute, London, Regarding the upcoming, um… operation. 2nd August, 2017. Recording taken direct from subject.

I-I wanted to get some thoughts down before, um… everything. We all should, actually. I’ll, I’ll maybe mention it to them.

It looks like it’s decided. Myself, Daisy, Basira, and, uh, Tim are all going to be heading off to this House of Wax. We’re to sneak in as best we can. Daisy will set the charges while we, what was the phrase she used, “run interference.” Then we will set them off once the ritual begins. Gertrude’s notes were pretty clear. Unless the ritual is underway, any damage we do can be easily repaired. But if we time it right, it’ll be centuries, maybe, before they can try again. Of course, if we time it wrong…

Daisy’s been pretty clear that she thinks the best chance of success would be for her to go in alone, and, honestly, I struggle to disagree. But Tim isn’t going to sit home and wait, and Elias seems pretty insistent I go along. Part of me thinks it’s just so he can see if whatever this “preparation” he’s been trying to do on me works. You know what? That same petty little part of me rather hopes it doesn’t. That all this time, all his cryptic nudges and “learn to fly by falling” attitude, ends up being a complete waste of time. Just to show him. Even so, I, I… it wouldn’t feel right to not go.

I think Basira is the same. She’s coming along to back up Daisy, or so she says. I don’t quite get those two. I suppose what they’ve done, seeing what they’ve seen… it’s a hell of a bond. The sort of thing I’ve mostly done alone. Still, it does sometimes make it hard to fully trust them…

You, you know what, no. I’m, I’m done with that. No more paranoia. It’s almost got me killed more than once, and Georgie was right. If I am, uh, slipping then I need people I can trust. And I… I don’t think that can happen naturally for me an-anymore, so I’m making a decision. I trust them. All of them.

Ex-except Elias, obviously, that’s not - I mean - I’ve listened to the tapes. I’ve listened to the tapes, and I know what they talk about behind my back, how much they’ve… suffered because of this place. Because of me. God. Poor Melanie.

And… aside from some, uh, uh, office gossip which I, I’m not sure is necessary or, uh, conducive to a workplace that… hey, it, it, it’s natural it’s, it’s normal. There’s, there’s no there’s no sinister hidden motives or… it’s fine. It, it’s fine.

So, I guess… sometime in the next few days, I go on a commando mission to blow up a wax museum. So, exactly what I was expecting from an archiving job. I do worry about Martin and Melanie, and leaving them behind with… I suppose that’s part of trusting someone isn’t it? Letting them help how they can.

Oh, yeah, I found something on the other body the circus stole [laugh], this “George Icarus.” Apparently he was interred earlier this year. I did a bit of [laugh] digging, and it looks like the plot and the headstone were paid for by… the Magnus Institute! And I can think of only one man who died within the last few months who the Institute would want buried under a pseudonym. Only one who spent his life so close to fear that his skin would be useful in a ritual like this. I don’t know what to actually do with this information, but… god. Jurgen Leitner. I just can’t be rid of him.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
BASIRA
Statement of Basira Hussain, 2nd August, 2017, at the request of Jonathan Sims.

I don’t, I don’t really know why I’m here. I mean, I know how I got here. All the decisions I made, until suddenly: yep, this is my life! But not the why. Not really. Does that make sense?

[sigh] I don’t want to be here. But by the end, I didn’t want to be police, either, so, guess I don’t really know what I do want. Which… maybe that’s just as well. My options… they’ve gotten a lot narrower over the last year. I don’t know, I feel kind of bad. Everyone seems to be having a much worse time of it than me, but I was meant to be the hostage It’s amazing how much you can ignore when you keep your head in the book.

My dad would hate me talking like this. He couldn’t stand people who just passively moaned about their problems. He always said, if you don’t like something, you accept it and you adapt, or you fight and you change it. Whining doesn’t help. I always tried to live like that. But I think sometimes you feel like you’re adapting, but it’s just denial.

But not anymore. I’m going to fight, and change it. I just hope I’m not heading into the wrong battle. I suppose if John screws up, it wouldn’t hurt the others to have a trained pair of hands to help. So, waxworks it is. I just wish it didn’t feel so much like abandoning Melanie. And Martin.

But at least Daisy’s coming. I mean, I know she’s… difficult. Everything they say about her, it’s true, it’s fair. But, she’s solid. She’s a… a fixed point, and if she’s there, I know exactly where I stand, exactly what I’m doing, relative to her. She has no doubts. We go in, we plant bombs, wee leave we blow it all to hell. Or, we die. I don’t think I’ll ever have clarity like that. Despite everything she’s done, she’s, she’s still the best partner I ever had.

[sigh] I just hope John can keep it together. And Tim… gosh, Tim. I know they’ve been through a lot, but they’ve never taken something like this on before. And if it’s anything like what we went after Rayner, it’s going to get bad. The sort of bad you can only get through if you stay focused and keep a clear head. You choke down the fear - and not because it’s feeding some weird horrible god, like John thinks, but because that’s how you keep going.

I guess, I guess we’re all just gonna have to do what we can, and see what comes out the other side. [sigh]

How the hell did I end up having to save the world?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MELANIE
Melanie King, 2nd of August, 2017. 11:23 p.m.

It’s late. I don’t know what time the others are leaving. Might be tomorrow morning, I guess. They don’t really tell me that sort of thing. They’re going to let me and Martin know when they’re ready, when everything’s about to actually kick off. I should probably wish them luck, and hope that there isn’t going to be some kind of horrifying apocalypse, but it’s rather hard to hope for anything at the moment. Hope isn’t really good for anything it’s always been action with me. It’s, it’s been doing things that helps. I’ve never really seen the point of hope.

I know why I’m not a part of this action. I, I do I have my own stuff to take care of. They think they’re giving me a chance to face my demons by helping to take down Elias. They don’t get that the only way to deal with something like him is to watch his eyes go dead with your hands around his throat. Oh, play it their way, for now, but when it comes down to it, I want to see him dead.

I, I’m so angry just sometimes, when John’s going off on one about his latest insight, it’s all I can do not to punch him in the teeth. I feel like I’ve always been fighting. No one makes space for people like me. You’ve got to elbow the comfortable idiots out of the way, and then claw your way up with gritted teeth. I’ve had to struggle for everything.

I know it sounds stupid to call starting a ghost hunting show a fight, but it was tooth and nail, and I won. And then I went to that hospital, and I met John, and it all fell apart, but I’m still fighting. For all the good it’s done me. Still stuck, still miserable, still angry. New traumas, but they hurt just like the old ones. Elias thinks he’s got this ingenious way to hurt people, but it’s just the same old and a creepy new package. God, I just want to rip -

When did I start to lose the parts of me that weren’t just anger? Hmm. So, if you listen to this, John - if you survive - I know you wanted a statement about my trip to India. So, well.

In 1919, British troops massacred almost a thousand unarmed civilians in Amritsar. You know I was looking into specters of war and violence, and I found reports that these soldiers’ ghosts were still manifesting. I did my research, and I figured out where and when I thought it was going to happen next.

I told you what I was doing, and then I went to see for myself. I was right. They did manifest, but they weren’t what I thought they’d be. They were fused, somehow, all mixed together, a huge angry mass of dead flesh and guns. I ran away, obviously. I ran away. It wasn’t like it could chase me. But it turned out their bullets were more solid than I’d have guessed for ghostly antiques, and one of them got me. I had it sewn up at the hospital. Said I’d been mugged, although the scans couldn’t find anything in there.

And then, I came home. So, yes, that’s it, that’s all you’re getting. Because it hurt like hell to live through, and I didn’t do it so you could stroke your chin and call it fascinating.

Good luck, John. I do hope you win. But I also hope it hurts.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Um, statement of Martin Blackwood, on the night of his colleagues’ departure. Statement given direct, August 3rd, 2017. Statement begins.

I, I’m scared, I guess. - no, wait. No, no, I mean, aww, I don’t want that to be my last message, the thing that defines me. “Martin Blackwood, he was always scared, then he died. The end.” I don’t want that.

But it’s true, isn’t it? I mean, if there are these things out there eating our fear, then I’m a luxury smorgasbord, I suppose. I’m just afraid all the time.

I know, I know, I’m not gonna die, I’m not even going to be on the incredibly dangerous mission. Me and Melanie, well… I don’t think death is really the worry. It’s just, this feels like an ending? Or, something? Like nothing can go back to normal after this Hey, hey, I mean what’s normal, right? Is living in old document storage normal? Is losing a friend and not even noticing normal? Corridors; evil, all-seeing managers… Suppose you can get used to anything.

But… this feels different. I need them to be safe, I need him to be okay. So-sorry, umm. I’m not afraid for me, though. Isn’t that weird? I mean, it’s not like I’m going to be safe, like my plan’s not dangerous, but it’s, it’s mine. This last couple of years, I’ve always been running, always hiding, caught in someone else’s trap, but, but now it’s my trap, and, well, I think it’ll work. I know, I know it’s not exactly intricate, but it felt good leaving my own little web.

Oh, oh, Christ, I hope John doesn’t actually listen to these. “Good lord, is Martin becoming some sort of spider person?” No, John, it’s an expression, chill out! Besides, spiders are fine. I mean, yes, people are scared of them, obviously, but actual spiders, they just want to help you out with flies.

Anyway, I guess I’m just sick of sitting on my hands drinking tea and hoping everyone’s okay. This way, I finally get to do something. It’s gonna hurt, but I’m ready. And I want to. Also, I get to burn some stuff, so that’s cool! I just really hope everyone makes it back.

And I want to win on my own.

Oh, and I hope the world doesn’t end. Obviously. Just… just don’t die, John. Or, or Tim, Basira, or… Daisy, I guess? Just… can everyone please make it back home?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[SIGH, CLATTERING SOUNDS]
DAISY
Okay.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
All right. I don’t know what you are, I don’t even know if you’re listening. I don’t care. Just, if you’re there, I want you to know that I hate you. I hate you for, for witnessing what’s happened to us.

I used to blame my brother for going off his own and poking around where he wasn’t wanted. I used to blame myself for not helping him. But now… now it doesn’t matter. I’ve read through enough of these things to know that this doesn’t matter. The only thing you need to have your life destroyed by this stuff is just bad luck. Talk to the wrong person, take the wrong train, open the wrong door, and that’s it!

I’m gonna hurt them, though. I’m gonna hurt the thing that stole my brother and wrecked my life. I’m the distraction. If it looks like any of the circus folk, mannequins, whatever, are gonna see the others, I’m to make the biggest mess I can, draw them away, keep them busy. [laugh] I know what it means. They gave it to me because they think I’ll get angry and do something stupid anyway. And they’re probably right. So maybe it’s for the best.

You know, for the longest time, I thought the secret was in balance. In some dusty old architect’s work on symmetry. But he failed, didn’t he? What was he even trying to achieve? He lived like anyone else, he died like anyone else. Whatever he was looking for in his “balance and fear,” I don’t think he found it. From what I can tell, there’s only one person who’s ever managed to hurt them - to really hurt them. And that’s Gertrude Robinson. She was cold, ruthless, and she hit them when they were vulnerable, and she sacrificed a lot of people to do it.

Honestly, I hope that John learned something from her because, because I don’t expect I’m going to be coming back from this. I don’t know if I want to. And if he needs to pull the trigger, to use me to stop it… well, he’d better have the guts to do it.

Timothy Stoker, August 4th, 2017. [laugh] Statement ends.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
That’s it, then. I think. Except, uh… I, uh, I haven’t burned it.

Gerard’s page… Gerry. I-I know there’s more he could tell me - he he, wouldn’t of, of course, I, I know that but he, he… he would still be there, th-that, that knowledge, i-it would it would still exist…

I,I,I can’t… I want to help, I-I want to… but I, I’m scared…

I’m on tape, just, just, just do it! Do it!!

[PAINED FUMBLING SOUNDS]
[SOUND OF BURNING]
…y-you owe me one, Gerry. Rest in, uh… just rest.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
MARTIN
Are you listening?

[HE TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
Good.

[WE HEAR HIM FLIP THROUGH SOME FILES.]
Case, uhh, 0071304. Statement of Ivo Lensik.

[HE BREATHES OUT AGAIN, THEN FLICKS OPEN A LIGHTER.]
(your loss) Alright.

[HE SETS THE STATEMENT ALIGHT AND LETS OUT A LONG BREATH.]
Statement ends, I guess. Um…

[HE LOOKS THROUGH SOME MORE STATEMENTS.]
Harold Silvana. 0020406. You’ll probably do.

[HE LIGHTS THIS STATEMENT AFLAME TOO. THERE’S A CLEAR GLEE IN HIS VOICE AS HE CONTINUES; WHAT’S UP WITH THAT?]
All right then. 0140207. Dylan Anderson. Yeah? (pause) Okay.

[HE SETS IT ON FIRE.]
(sing-song) There’s plenty more on the pile…

[THERE’S A SHARP KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK AT THE DOOR. IT’S ELIAS, AND HE DOESN’T SOUND HAPPY.]
ELIAS
Martin. Martin, open the door.

[HE JIGGLES THE DOORKNOB IN A FRUITLESS ATTEMPT TO OPEN IT.]
MARTIN
Sorry, Elias. I can’t hear you. There’s - a door in the way.

ELIAS
Martin, I do not have time for this.

MARTIN
Then maybe you should make time.

ELIAS
Unlock the door. Now.

MARTIN
I thought you had a key.

ELIAS
Martin.

MARTIN
I’m not going anywhere.

[ELIAS KNOCKS ONCE MORE AGAINST THE DOOR IN FRUSTRATION, THEN STALKS OFF, PRESUMABLY TO GET THE KEY.]
MARTIN
I would hurry, though, if I were you.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. WAXWORKS]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THERE’S A LOW, ALMOST WINDY SORT OF CONSTANT BACKGROUND NOISE. EVERYONE (JON, DAISY, BASIRA, TIM)’S VOICES ECHO A LITTLE MORE THAN USUAL.]
DAISY
Come on.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[HE MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST - IT ALMOST SOUNDS LIKE HE’S STRAINING WITH SOMETHING.]
DAISY
Shut. Up. It’s just cobwebs.

ARCHIVIST
There’s no such thing as just cobwebs.

[EVERYONE AROUND HIM SIGHS. THEIR SIGHS ARE WEARY, AS IF THEY’VE HEARD THIS, OR SOME VARIATION THEREOF, BEFORE.]
ARCHIVIST
I don’t like it.

TIM
Tough. Is this it?

BASIRA
Yeah. We plant the last of it here, and this place will go up nice.

ARCHIVIST
What’s the range on the detonator?

TIM
Same as the last time you asked.

[IN THE BACKGROUND WE CAN HEAR THE SOUND OF DAISY UNZIPPING THE EXPLOSIVES BAG.]
BASIRA
Where is everybody?

ARCHIVIST
Preparing, I - I guess. Haven’t seen any of them since the last of, uh, whatever the hell that was went inside.

[RUSTLING SOUNDS.]
BASIRA
It’s too quiet.

ARCHIVIST
It could be a trap.

DAISY
And? If it is, I give this a squeeze, no more trap.

BASIRA
And no more us.

[DAISY MAKES A NONCOMMITTAL NOISE.]
TIM
[Don’t fret] it. And anyways, it’s not like we’re alone in here. (Laughs) Look. There’s Prince Charles.

[EVERYONE GROANS.]
TIM
Oh, if he’d been in an accident. Or, the Beatles! If they’d all been in separate accidents, like, like Ringo -

[BASIRA(?) SIGHS.]
TIM
- was in a horrible fire, or Paul was in a car crash, that’s a classic -

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Tim. I remember them. The waxworks are… bad. (A mechanical sound begins) Just keep an eye on them.

If they start… moving, hit them with an axe.

TIM
Sure.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
Jon…

ARCHIVIST
Yes?

BASIRA
When you were, um, kidnapped, did you leave a tape recorder here?

ARCHIVIST
What? I don’t - I don’t think so, why? Is there -

[SILENCE AS EYES GO TO THE TAPE RECORDER.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
For god’s sake.

BASIRA
So where did it come from?

ARCHIVIST
Not important right now.

BASIRA
Jon, it’s - d -

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I’m aware.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. ARCHIVES]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[RUSTLING OF PAPERS. A CRACKLING BEGINS AS MARTIN LIGHTS ANOTHER STATEMENT ON FIRE.]
MARTIN
Hello?

ELIAS
What are you doing.

MARTIN
That one, that one was Benjamin Hatendi. You weren’t fast enough with the key!

ELIAS
What. Are. You. Doing.

MARTIN
Oh, I’m sorry, can you not just look into my head? Read my mind?

[THE FIRE CRACKLES.]
What’s wrong? Too busy trying to keep an eye on everything?

ELIAS
Tell me what you’re doing, and why.

MARTIN
I just thought I’d, you know, drop a couple of ideas in the old suggestion box.

[HE PICKS UP ANOTHER STATEMENT.]
Turns out my suggestion is…

[HE SETS IT ALIGHT.]
Fire.

[ELIAS SIGHS IN A WAY THAT SOUNDS LIKE HE’S TRYING TO KEEP HIMSELF FROM SAYING OR DOING SOMETHING.]
ELIAS
And yet you haven’t set the whole Archives alight. So I assume this is… what’s it called. A cry for attention.

MARTIN
Maybe I just thought it might hurt.

ELIAS
No more than you’re hurting yourself by acting out.

MARTIN
Oh, so that’s it, isn’t it. Martin’s just acting out. I mean, Daisy’s a “rabid dog,” and Melanie’s a potential killer, Tim’s a - a rogue element, but Martin, oh Martin’s just acting out. He’ll have a cry, and a lie down, and feel much better.

ELIAS
(done) And if you’re trying to convince me otherwise, then you are failing. Now, if you’re quite done, I am very busy.

MARTIN
Oh, sorry. Sorry, I’m not - keeping you from the show, am I? Well - well you head back. I’ll keep myself busy here. Albrecht von Closen is next, I think.

[THERE MAY BE A QUIET ‘OH’ IN THE BACKGROUND HERE.]
He’s quite an old one. Should go up very quickly.

ELIAS
[ELIAS TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
Did Jon put you up to this?

MARTIN
You think I’m doing this for him?

ELIAS
No. It’s just the sort of half-baked scheme he’d come up with, and I am well aware that you’d do just about anything for him.

MARTIN
(overlapping) I would [unintelligible] -

ELIAS
(cutting off) And I don’t need to read your mind for that one.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Do you really -

[HE CUTS HIMSELF OFF, COMPOSES HIMSELF.]
Is it so hard to believe that I hate you as well?

ELIAS
No. It’s just hard to imagine that you would act on it.

[DISBELIEVING LAUGH FROM MARTIN.]
MARTIN
You think I’m what - I’m, I’m, I’m, um, blind?

ELIAS
Oh, no. You’ve made that quite clear.

MARTIN
So what? I don’t get to be angry? I don’t get to burn things? Just, just run around, making tea, while everyone else gets to actually have feelings?

ELIAS
Please get to the point, Martin.

MARTIN
Maybe there isn’t one. Alright? Maybe -

ELIAS
Maybe you’re just wasting my time.

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, maybe.

ELIAS
I see. That puts me in a… difficult position.

MARTIN
Good.

ELIAS
You might want to turn the tape off, Martin.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. WAXWORKS]
ARCHIVIST
How much longer?

DAISY
(through gritted teeth) I don’t. Know.

ARCHIVIST
The others didn’t take this long.

DAISY
The others had clear structural weaknesses. This room doesn’t.

TIM
How hard can it be to blow up one building? All this… stuff!

DAISY
It depends. Lots of other buildings close around it, I was told to be careful.

TIM
Right. Fine.

BASIRA
So would you say this was supposed to be Churchill or Alfred Hitchcock?

[JON LETS OUT A BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
Jowls like that, could be either. I mean, the [unintelligible] is a bit - Tim! Leave it!

TIM
We should know what’s going on. How close they are.

ARCHIVIST
We are not ready yet! If you start opening doors and they see you -

TIM
Are you sure it’s through there?

ARCHIVIST
I, I, I, I’m pretty sure. I saw it a few times while I was here, they’ve knocked through most of the middle, ho-hollowed it out, made a sort of auditorium.

BASIRA
How big?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know! Big!

BASIRA
I mean, it’s not a huge building.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. Tonight was my first time seeing it from the outside. At least in the… flesh. I guess it does seem, m, smaller?

[SILENCE.]
BASIRA
You’re sure this is the right place?

ARCHIVIST
I am. This is definitely where they kept me. Although I don’t remember quite this many waxworks.

BASIRA
Alright. I just don’t want to get this far and find out we’re in a -

[SHE’S CUT OFF BY A STRANGE MUSIC SEEMING TO COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST
This is the place.

[HE TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
TIM
We need to see what’s going on in there.

ARCHIVIST
Just ignore it. We have a job to do.

BASIRA
Jesus.

ARCHIVIST & TIM
What?

BASIRA
It moved.

ARCHIVIST
Right, okay, if they’re starting to, ah, We’ve got to go.

BASIRA
No, like - it was just- it’s just a flicker in his eyes. Look at it -

ARCHIVIST
Don’t - Look, if the waxworks are coming alive, we need to go.

BASIRA
Just shut up and look.

[SILENCE BUT FOR THE BACKGROUND MELODY AS THEY DO.]
BASIRA
Huh.

ARCHIVIST
Oh god… Oh god, they’re not waxworks.

TIM
What do you - Christ.

ARCHIVIST
Tim, I - I think - I think maybe we had better see what’s going on in there.

TIM
Alright. Alright. On three. (pause) Three.

[THEY OPEN THE DOOR. THE MUSIC GROWS LOUDER.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh…

TIM
Holy -

ARCHIVIST
Yes. I suppose it is.

DAISY
Done.

ARCHIVIST
I, um. I think we might need all of it, Daisy. This place is, uh, it’s bigger than we thought.

DAISY
Roger that. Give me a couple of minutes.

ARCHIVIST
S-s-sooner would be better.

[HE STARTS BREATHING FASTER.]
TIM
What is it?

ARCHIVIST
Fear fuels everything, of course they need it, for a g-grand ritual…

BASIRA
What the hell is that thing? What’s it doing to them?

ARCHIVIST
I, I think - I used to call it The Anglerfish. It’s - I knew it took the skin, used it to coat people made of sawdust and stuffing, but now - I suppose I thought it just ate the rest. But no. It had a museum to fill with waxworks. And I guess you don’t need skin to sing. (shaky breath) To join the choir.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. ARCHIVES]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
MARTIN
Hm. Sorry. Looks like it wants to know what’s going on.

ELIAS
Hm. A pity. You know Jon listens to all of them.

MARTIN
What, you don’t want him hearing your big evil speech?

ELIAS
Just wanted to spare you the small amount of dignity you have left.

[MARTIN LAUGHS, BUT IT’S MIRTHLESS.]
MARTIN
Dignity? Right, yeah. Like the dignity of being trapped in your flat by worms, or sleeping in the Archives clutching a corkscrew, or, or fetching drinks for the thing that murdered your friend without you even noticing. Laughing, at all their little jokes, then being led to wander impossible corridors for weeks.

ELIAS
(sighing) Are you done.

MARTIN
Not even close. Because, I - (composes himself) I’ve been thinking. It’s not like you got this all-seeing thing recently. You’ve had it the whole time. I remember the way you looked at Sasha after the attack. You knew it wasn’t her. And I reckon you knew Prentiss was lurking under the Institute, too, and you did nothing. Why?

[BEAT.]
[MARTIN SLAMS HIS HAND DOWN ONTO THE DESK.]
Why?

[BEAT.]
ELIAS
Let’s just get this over with, shall we?

MARTIN
What, like with Melanie? Just that perfect bit of information to leave me a wreck?

[ELIAS TAKES A BREATH.]
ELIAS
Yes.

MARTIN
Well, I hope you’ve got something better than that pathetic dig at my feelings for Jon.

ELIAS
It’s baffling, really. Such loyalty to someone who really treats you very badly.

MARTIN
Oh, is that supposed to be, what, a revelation?

ELIAS
You know, I really should have gone for that. Found something that would finally manage to shatter that precious image you have of him. But, as you say I am very busy at the moment. So I suppose I’ll have to go with what I had prepared.

MARTIN
Do it.

ELIAS
Your mother. She’s always been… difficult, hasn’t she. You take care of her for years, feed her, clean up after her, and now, with her condition degrading even further, she is the one that asked to be moved into a home.

[MARTIN SUCKS IN A SHAKY BREATH.]
To have it left to the nurses. She’s the one that refuses your visits.

MARTIN
She’s a-always been -

ELIAS
Strong-willed?

MARTIN
Stubborn…

ELIAS
No. No, Martin. You know the reason. Your mother simply hates you. You just don’t know why.

It’s not your fault, though I know that isn’t any consolation. Just bad luck, really. How old were you when your father left? Eight? Nine? When your mother began to sicken, and he decided he was done with you both. Not old enough to remember him with any great clarity, especially when your mother refused to keep any pictures of him. She never recovered from that betrayal. He just tore her heart right out and took it with him.

The thing is, though, Martin. If you ever do want to know exactly what your father looked like… All you have to do is look in a mirror.

[MARTIN’S BREATHING GROWS LOUDER AND SHAKIER. THERE’S A VAGUE STATIC IN THE BACKGROUND, STILL.]
ELIAS
The resemblance is quite uncanny. The face of the man she hates, who destroyed her life, watching over her. Feeding her. Cleaning her. Looking down on her with such pity.

MARTI
(tearful) Shut. Up.

ELIAS
You want to know what she sees when she looks at you?

[BOTH MARTIN’S SOBS AND THE STATIC GROW LOUDER; ELIAS IS TRANSMITTING THE MEMORIES AND IMAGES STRAIGHT INTO HIS MIND.]
MARTIN
(through sobs) Oh god…

[HE CONTINUES CRYING AS THE STATIC KEEPS GOING.]
ELIAS
(hissing) Don’t burn any more statements.

[ELIAS LEAVES, CLOSING THE DOOR TO THE OFFICE BEHIND HIM AS MARTIN CONTINUES SOBBING. HE’S DOING HIS BEST TO COMPOSE HIMSELF, AND HE MANAGES TO DO SO JUST ENOUGH BEFORE THE DOOR OPENS AGAIN AND MELANIE COMES IN.]
MARTIN
Did you find anything?

MELANIE
Uh, yes, I found -

[SHE FINALLY LOOKS UP AND SEES THE STATE MARTIN’S IN.]
Jesus. Are you okay?

MARTIN
Do we have what we need?

MELANIE
I think so, yes. He didn’t even have a safe, just a few locked drawers. It was - it was easy.

[MARTIN TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
MARTIN
We need to leave.

MELANIE
We need to kill him. Look at you. He needs to die.

MARTIN
No. No, I - I knew what this was gonna be.

MELANIE
It’s not just for you! If we leave him alive -

MARTIN
Melanie. Melanie, please.

[BEAT.]
[MELANIE SIGHS.]
MELANIE
Alright. Let’s get these somewhere safe.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. WAXWORKS]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
BASIRA
So what do we do?

ARCHIVIST
We can’t help them.

TIM
So, what, we’re just going to leave them to be skinned alive?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) [And] what do you want me to do?!

TIM
Well, you brought me in as a distraction, right?

ARCHIVIST
What?

TIM
Let me do it. Go in, maybe you can get some of them -

ARCHIVIST
Tim, contrary to what you think, I did not bring you here to indulge your death wish.

TIM
That’s not what this is.

ARCHIVIST
No?

TIM
No! You knew I might not be coming back -

ARCHIVIST
I knew none of us might be coming back, and I’m not going to let anyone get killed for nothing!

TIM
Well, except for those people in there.

ARCHIVIST
They’re already dead!

TIM
Not all of them.

ARCHIVIST
(sudden yell, followed by immediate realization of need to whisper) I am not losing you as well!

BASIRA
[unintelligible, overlapping]… Look. Whatever we’re going to do, we need to figure it out. Now.

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

TIM
Look. Jon, I -

DAISY
Done.

ARCHIVIST
What?

DAISY
It’s all ready. Here.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. I - I thought you would want to, uh, do the honors.

DAISY
It’s safer with you. You know when it needs to happen.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Okay, um, c-come on, then. Let’s go. (pause) Tim, come on.

TIM
This isn’t right.

BASIRA
At least it’ll be quick.

ARCHIVIST
Tim, please. We have to go -

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN. THE MUSIC IS LOUDER, NOW.]
ARCHIVIST
Get back.

DAISY
Behind me.

[A NEW STATIC BEGINS.]
NIKOLA
(over speaker) Will the audience please take their positions?

[THE STATIC GROWS IN INTENSITY.]
NIKOLA
The show… has begun.

ARCHIVES TEAM
AAAAH.

[THE STATIC GROWS LOUDER. IN THE BACKGROUND, THE CIRCUS MUSIC INTENSIFIES, WITH A PROPER MELODY AND BEAT FINALLY RECOGNIZABLE. AMIDST IT ALL IS THE ARCHIVIST’S BREATHING, LOUD AND ISOLATED AGAINST THE BACKGROUND FRENZY.]
ARCHIVIST
Jesus…

BASIRA
Get the hell away from me!

TIM
Where’s - no!

DAISY
Don’t move -

ARCHIVIST
Daisy! Daisy, i-it’s me!

TIM
No!

DAISY
I said, don’t move.

ARCHIVIST
Daisy!

[SOMETHING IS SLAMMED, OR HIT.]
[THE CIRCUS MUSIC CONTINUES FOR A FEW SECONDS BEFORE FADING OUT INTO THE MAGNUS ARCHIVES THEME.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CIRCUS MUSIC PLAYS]
ARCHIVIST
[echoing] Hello? I – anyone? What’s - what’s going on? What is this place? Where…

Help? Please? Anybody?

SARAH!NIKOLA
I’m somebody.

ARCHIVIST
[stammering] What? Who are you?

SARAH!NIKOLA
What an excellent question.

ARCHIVIST
You - you stay away from me.

SARAH!NIKOLA
“Sarah”, “Daniel”… sometimes I think I’m just not built for names. A hundred puppets, a hundred pointless names.

ARCHIVIST
I-I don’t understand.

SARAH!NIKOLA
Of course you don’t. You can’t. Not anymore.

ARCHIVIST
What? I don’t… I don’t… who are you?

SARAH!NIKOLA
[chuckling] It’s me, Jon. It’s Tim.

ARCHIVIST
Jon. Jon?

TIM!NIKOLA
Yes, that’s your name, and I’m Tim, your friend.

ARCHIVIST
Tim?

TIM!NIKOLA
Yes. Jon, you can relax.

ARCHIVIST
No – no, no, no–

TIM!NIKOLA
[overlapping] Everything is going to be alright.

ARCHIVIST
No, Tim, we’ve - we’ve got to stop it.

TIM!NIKOLA
Stop what?

ARCHIVIST
I…

TIM!NIKOLA
And how are you going to stop it?

ARCHIVIST
[stammering] I have, I have… I thought that this, this…

I - I don’t know.

TIM!NIKOLA
Well, don’t you worry. I’m sure we can work it out together.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, yes. Yes - Tim, I just I need a second, to… uh-

TIM!NIKOLA
Of course, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Jon. Yes, that’s - that’s me.

TIM!NIKOLA
Give it to me.

ARCHIVIST
[disoriented] Yes, yes, if you could, I’d - I’d value your input on it…

TIM!NIKOLA
Tim.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Tim. Tim.

TIM!NIKOLA
Now let’s take a look at this.

ARCHIVIST
Please.

TIM!NIKOLA
Right now, what we have here is our handheld remote detonator.

ARCHIVIST
A what?

TIM!NIKOLA
It talks to a bomb.

ARCHIVIST
Wait. Wait, uh…

TIM!NIKOLA
I imagine if you’d use it, we’d all have come to quite a nasty end.

ARCHIVIST
That was - uh, that was-

TIM!NIKOLA
[giggling] Don’t you worry, Archivist, it’s all in good hands.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t understand.

TIM!NIKOLA
And you never will again.

BREEKON
Hello, Daisy.

HOPE
You alright?

DELIVERYMEN (BOTH)
Daisy?

DAISY
No.

BREEKON
I’m sorry?

HOPE
Don’t follow you.

DAISY
Leave… no.

BREEKON
Come on Daisy.

HOPE
Don’t be like that.

BREEKON
It’s me, Basira.

DAISY
No, you’re not. Because nothing is anything. Leave.

BREEKON
And if I don’t?

HOPE
What will you do?

DAISY
I’ll kill you.

BREEKON
Will you now?

HOPE
Ooh, pretty scary. If you can, that is.

BREEKON
You don’t even know what a gun is.

DAISY
I don’t care.

[SOUNDS OF GORE AND THE DELIVERYMEN GROANING IN SHOCK, DAISY BEGINS LAUGHING.]
TIM
Get away from me!

BASIRA
[slurred] It’s alright. I’m not - I’m not one of them.

TIM
Everyone is, this isn’t - just get back.

BASIRA
Okay, okay who - who are you?

TIM
[agitated] I don’t know, do I?

BASIRA
What can we do?

TIM
It’s too late. There’s nothing.

BASIRA
There must be. We just need to figure this out. I - I know I’m me…

TIM
So what’s your name? Huh? Who exactly is “me”?

BASIRA
Doesn’t matter. Names don’t matter. I just… I know - I know I’m me and I know I’m here.

TIM
Bullshit, “here” is just – [groans]

BASIRA
There’s things that - that they’re not me, they want to hurt me, but. I don’t want to hurt you.

TIM
I don’t believe you.

BASIRA
I don’t want to hurt anyone.

TIM
Get back!

BASIRA
No, we can do this, I - I can do this, I just need you to -

TIM
I said get away!

[SOUNDS OF STRUGGLE AND GRUNTING]
BASIRA
Don’t… wait. I don’t… I don’t understand.

ARCHIVIST
It isn’t - it isn’t real.

NIKOLA
What isn’t real, Jon?

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I don’t know. None of this is real.

NIKOLA
But it is! Just because you don’t understand doesn’t mean it’s a lie.

ARCHIVIST
Who are you?

NIKOLA
[unconvincingly] Why, I’m…. Tim of course! Who else would I be?

ARCHIVIST
You’re not. You’re not Tim.

NIKOLA
Oh, you caught me! I’m Sasha!

ARCHIVIST
Shut up!

NIKOLA
Really, it’s me! Sasha… whatever-her-name-was! Back from the dead, just like you wanted!

ARCHIVIST
Get away from me or I swear, or I’ll -

NIKOLA
Or you’ll what? Hit me? Go on then, try it - make a fist.

ARCHIVIST
I… I…

NIKOLA
Do you even know which of these hands is yours?

ARCHIVIST
Stop… stop, stand still.

NIKOLA
Do you even know what a hand is?

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
Pathetic.

ARCHIVIST
Wait. Wait, I - I know you.

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
I would hope you do.

ARCHIVIST
How are you here?

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
Don’t be obtuse, Jon. I’m here because you failed.

ARCHIVIST
I-I tried. I tried, I almost–

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
You almost what? You almost didn’t doom the world? No, you almost let reality be the plaything of a lazy, foolish liar.

ARCHIVIST
No, no - I would - I could have stopped them.

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
How? You didn’t even know what it was. Do you know how many people I killed to keep the world in one piece? The sacrifices I made, and you didn’t even know what you were fighting.

ARCHIVIST
N-no, I didn’t -

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
I suppose it’s of no consequence now, it’s far too late.

ARCHIVIST
What can I do?

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
[gleefully] You can scream, I suppose. Weep, maybe. Have you considered curling into a ball?

ARCHIVIST
Why are you doing this?

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
I’m not. You know, it’s probably for the best I’m dead. Can you imagine how I’d hate having to watch you fumble around as my replacement? I really cannot express how much of a disappointment you are.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, I didn’t even -

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
I fought for years to stop the Stranger in its tracks, you didn’t even notice when they desecrated my corpse. And now look at me. You’ve made me part of their ritual. This is your fault.

ARCHIVIST
It is not. It’s not, I didn’t know. It’s not my fault you died.

LEITNER!NIKOLA
[distorted] No, I suppose not. Me, on the other hand… that one is very much your fault.

ARCHIVIST
[despairing] No, not - not you as well…

LEITNER!NIKOLA
Oh, yes.

ARCHIVIST
He told… why - why didn’t you warn me it would be like this?

LEITNER!NIKOLA
I hardly had the chance, did I? Before you left me to get my head bashed in. I understand, of course. You needed a cigarette? I suppose you should have remembered that smoking kills. [giggles]

ARCHIVIST
That’s not – I don’t know…

LEITNER!NIKOLA
Come now, Archivist. Surely you know what a cigarette is. Or a pipe?

ARCHIVIST
It’s hard to think.

LEITNER!NIKOLA
If our earlier conversation was anything to go by, I hardly think you can blame your faults on the ritual. Your problems go far deeper than that.

ARCHIVIST
Just – give me a moment, please.

LEITNER!NIKOLA
You think that would help? Honestly, if I wasn’t so dead I’d be impressed. I always thought my own hubris to be quite exceptional, but you’ve managed to somehow deliver more bad decisions into two years than I managed in a lifetime. But by all means take your moment.

ARCHIVIST
What do you want?

NIKOLA
I already have what I want, little Archivist! Now I just want you to join me for a dance!

[JON SCREAMS]
[DAISY GROWLS]
BREEKON
You killed him! Do you even know what you’ve done?

[DAISY BEGINS TO LAUGH]
BREEKON
You stupid animal.

DAISY
[growling] Kill you…

BREEKON
No.

[DAISY CONTINUES TO LAUGH]
Shame you don’t know your own coffin. But you will. [chuckles] You will.

[MUSIC]
BASIRA
[talking to herself] Don’t panic. Don’t panic. Just close your…

[groans] Ignore it. ignore the uh… don’t listen. Focus, think. This is a place. You are you and you’re in a place now. If… if it’s a place, and it’s now, then… then… then it has an end. The other things, the…

[BASIRA GROANS IN FRUSTRATION]
Too much, too much. There’s - there’s too many. and they wanna hurt me so - so… you leave the place. You leave the place and the now. No place is forever. You know how to move, so do it. Pick a where… then the move.

Good! Then - then keep moving. Keep moving until you find another place. A place you know… just keep moving. Keep moving.

NIKOLA
Do you feel it, Archivist? it’s almost there, the new day.

GERTRUDE!NIKOLA
A terrible new world. It is all your fault.

LEITNER!NIKOLA
Though I suppose you never really had a chance.

ARCHIVIST
I see you.

NIKOLA
Do you now?

ARCHIVIST
Yes… yes. I see the sad clown, bitter and hateful. I see him finding his way into the circus where nobody knew him. I see him torn apart, becoming the mask, remade by a cruel ringmaster. Sometimes a doll, sometimes a mannequin, always hiding in somebody else’s skin. Somebody else’s name.

NIKOLA
[petulantly] Not always. And it’s far too late for any of that. Nothing you see can help you.

SARAH!NIKOLA
Not without the detonator.

NIKOLA
Really, Archivist! After all this preparation, all your research! All this magnificent grotesquery, and what - you were just going to blow it up?

SARAH!NIKOLA
Probably the hunter’s idea. She killed one of the couriers.

NIKOLA
Oh dear, how sad.

SARAH!NIKOLA
She was also the one that damaged this shell.

NIKOLA
You have hundreds of shells, Sarah! And soon you will have tens of thousands. You can have your little girl within every dark corner of the whole world!

SARAH!NIKOLA
Not until you finish the dance.

NIKOLA
Oh, just let me enjoy myself for a moment! This is a once in an eternity event after all.

SARAH!NIKOLA
This in-between is not as comfortable for all of us as it is for you.

NIKOLA
Oh, fine. Archivist, it’s been a pleasure but I really must -

[TIM YELLS, NIKOLA GRUNTS]
ARCHIVIST
Wait, no–

TIM
I’ll kill you. All of you!

SARAH!NIKOLA
Will you now.

[SOUNDS OF STRUGGLE BETWEEN TIM AND JON]
NIKOLA
Let them fight! It’s adorable!

JON
[strained] Wait, Tim! What do you see?

TIM
[angered] I see my asshole boss!

Or- or… wait… wait.

NIKOLA
[displeased] Spoilsport.

SARAH!NIKOLA
Tim.

TIM
[snarling] Grimaldi.

NIKOLA
Once. A long time ago, before Orsinov made me. And sometimes, even now, for special occasions. Like your brother. [distorted] SHALL I?

ARCHIVIST
Tim, what’s in your hand?

TIM
[strained] It’s… I don’t… The detonator.

NIKOLA
That’s quite enough from you, I think.

[JON YELLS]
And now you.

TIM
Go on, I’ll race you. See if you can do it again before I can squeeze.

SARAH!NIKOLA
It’s too late.

NIKOLA
The world is ours! That toy won’t help you now.

TIM
So come and take it.

[PAUSE]
That’s what I thought.

NIKOLA
I am losing my patience.

TIM
Back! Get back. That’s right.

Jon. I don’t know if you can hear me, but if you can… then I don’t forgive you. But thank you for this.

NIKOLA
You idiot! Do you really make the world will fare any better under the Watcher? You think you’re saving anyone?!

TIM
I don’t care.

NIKOLA
You can’t even save him!

TIM
But I can hurt you.

NIKOLA
It will not end like this.

TIM
[dryly] You sound stressed. You know I hear the great Grimaldi’s in town. You should go see it, cheer yourself up.

NIKOLA
That’s. Not. Funny.

TIM
I know.

[DETONATOR CLICKS, EXPLOSION GOES OFF BEFORE ABRUPTLY CUTTING]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Statement of Elias Bouchard, regarding the dreams of Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, currently unresponsive. Details pulled directly from subject.

Statement begins.

ELIAS (STATEMENT)
The Archivist does not know where he is, and in many ways that is correct, for to say that he was anywhere would be an error. He has no conception of his body, lying on that gray hospital bed, perplexing the doctors. Heart unbeating, lungs unmoving, but mind and nerves alive and firing wildly: everything but brain-dead.

But he is where he exists so often when his eyes are closed. He wanders the dreams he was given. A cold and well-cleaned room, sterile metal tables that overflow with a gentle trickle of blood.

[HUMMING/VIBRATIONS BEGIN IN BACKGROUND]
The hearts that beat upon them spasm and spurt without any sort of rhythm, and were they to stand still for but a moment, it might become clear just how wrong they are in their construction.

There are no strange figures standing over those tables - no mockeries of earnest learning. But in the center stands a weeping, bearded man in a lab coat. In his thin, vinyl-gloved hands, he holds an apple, that he dearly wishes otherwise.

The doctor cannot bring himself to look at the tables, so instead, looks to the Archivist, whose eye watches him, and cannot close. He tries to scream, to curse at the Archivist, pleading to him for peace, for rest. The Archivist watches as the blood creeps along the tiled floor and pools at the doctor’s feet.

Desperate, he tries to throw the apple at his observer, but it is too late. The doctor has forgotten how the elbows work, and wrenches it to the side with a sickening crack. He tries again to scream, but he hasn’t got the throat right, and the wheezing, half-choked gurgle that escapes would stir pity in the Archivist, if he had not heard it so many times before.

The Archivist waits, expecting to awaken, but there is nowhere for him to awaken to. No avenue of escape from these dreams.

He turns to see the familiar screen, the familiar woman beneath it. She looks up at him with an expression of recognition and weary dread. She types and types and types, her fingers a blur, flying across the keyboard, and yet never fast enough to outrun the relentless words that flow like dark water across the screen that stretches off into the sky.

It hurts. She is shaking her head, defiant in her well-worn terror, and tries with every corner of her will to force back the rolling tide of words. It hurts. Her fingers are still, her hands raised to her mind, trying to think, trying to comprehend. It hurts.

She turns to stare at the Archivist. There is hatred in her eyes, and blame: an aching certainty that she is here because of him. He has brought her here.

He watches as she slowly brings the keyboard up to her lips, fighting against it every moment. She bites down, shards of plastic cutting her fingers as the words scroll unfettered across the screen for miles and miles and miles. And she is gone.

[BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS ACQUIRE A RUMBLING, INDUSTRIAL QUALITY]
The Archivist wanders. He is searching, though for what he does not know. He passes those places he can no longer watch - the silent wards of peeling skin, the empty warehouse of thick darkness and frightened children, the rusted train car that smells of eager, infectious hate.

All through it, the shadow is above him; the shape that gazes down upon him, bloodshot and unblinking.

The rain is still there, though it is empty. The long and desolate road, slick with the downpour; a police car’s lights flashing over the unmoving van. The doors are open, and the too-familiar statues stand either side of the well-worn wooden box.

He looks around, his eyes scanning this forever road and the clouds of iron gray, looking for her, but she is not there. The Archivist expects - he hopes - to find the violence in her looking back at him, hungry for pursuit and murder. But the emptiness of the place is complete - the only sounds, the gentle singing of the box, and the pounding, bitter rain.

He knows the writing on the coffin has changed, though it is still carved deep into the splintered wood:

I Am For You.

He knows it is not addressed to him, but he reaches down and pulls the chains off all the same. It opens, and he walks slowly down the steps into the earth. But even as it closes above him, the great shadow still sees him.

There is nowhere in this universe that it would not blot out the sky.

The rough-hewn tunnels go down, down beyond anything but sodden earth and despair, until the Archivist arrives at the tunnels. Here he sees the train, twisted and pressed in on all sides, nothing but shrieking metal and cracked glass. He climbs inside, and takes his seat, mouth tasting of mud and soil, his eyes moving through the dust and grit unblinking.

The passenger is there, though she is, as always, stationary. Dry dirt trickles between her teeth as she smiles mirthlessly, seeing the Archivist has returned. She is relaxed, suspended from a dozen broken handrails and shattered, jagged seats. They cut her flesh, but she does not bleed. There is no pain in her eyes. There is nothing except the certainty of her fate.

The train begins to move, the wheels screaming with the awful weight of it, every part buckling and pressing in, but the Archivist is not afraid. His only fear is that even here, at the center of the world, barreling towards a lightless, infinite tomb, still, he will be watched. Still, he will watch.

The expression on the passenger’s face does not change, even as the contorting metal crushes her skull like an egg, as she vanishes from view. He catches a glimpse of an advert above his seat: “Dig.”

There is a door in front of him. A yellow door. He knows the dream it used to lead to; he knows it well. But that’s not where it leads anymore. He does not know what is behind it anymore, and he is deathly afraid of finding out.

[HIGHER-PITCHED, TINNITIS-LIKE OSCILLATING SOUND ADDED TO BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS]
The Archivist turns away. Behind him are the ants. They move like a terrible rolling wave along the hard-packed ground, and he can see every twitching antenna, every clenching mandible. Somewhere, underneath that twitching, burrowing mass, is the exterminator. He is screaming. The Archivist knows he is screaming, can see him screaming, although the sound is lost under the noise of those hundred million ants, that crawl and scurry over everything.

For a second, a hand breaches the shifting mound, desperately stretched towards the Archivist in supplication, pleading for help. The Archivist watches, as it disappears painfully back into that sea of scrabbling life.

Then all at once, the ants are gone, fled in a moment away from the still-shuddering form of the exterminator, and a familiar terror finally pushes its way into the Archivist’s heart.

Before him rises an incinerator door, the glowing light of the flames curling around the cracks. With a wailing shriek, the door opens, and the burning silhouette that stands within is ingrained upon the Archivist’s racing mind. They smoke and sizzle, but still the worms crawl through her charred and pockmarked flesh, her now-singed red dress shifting with the movement beneath it.

[OSCILLATION GROWS LOUDER]
The exterminator looks to her, then to the Archivist, and it is not certain which he fears more.

The Archivist, for his part, is hopelessly willing the dream to stop. But as she takes one scorched step after another, it is clear that he has no power to make it.

When faced with her, he even longs for the terrible dream of the melted woman, who would see everything desolated without rhyme or reason. But she was beyond his reach the moment she knew he was there, so the Archivist can only stand and stare, as the hive goes about its infested, long-dead work.

The dark building is newer, but he knows it well; knows the two lost souls who creep through it with an alert hunger on their faces. He recognizes that look from the other hunter, whose dreams he has watched for so long. They stalk the darkness itself, and hope to catch and kill it before it can do the same to them. They see him watching, but they cannot catch his scent.

At last, he is in the moonlit graveyard - the oldest of the dreams. It is peaceful, cool and damp, as the rolling, boggy fields stretch out in all directions. He hears her calling pathetically from the bottom of the graves, ut by now he knows there is nothing he can do but stare. She begs to be released, to dream of this place no more, but there is nothing he can do.

So he watches her, trying in his single-minded focus to ignore the attention of that impossible thing that covers the sky, and fixes its gaze on him with such force it would choke him - were he breathing.

Another dissection room, another figure standing in its centre - but this one is calm. She simply looks at him sadly, a pity in her face that burns him worse than any flame. More than anything, the Archivist wants to look away, to turn his eye from her gentle sadness, from the disappointment in what she sees in him.

But he cannot, so he watches her, until she simply fades away.

[GROWING METALLIC, ECHOING SOUND, FADING IN AND OUT]
And at last, the Archivist looks up. At last, he looks into the eye that sees all, and knows all, and clutches at the secret terrors of your heart. The Ceaseless Watcher of all that is, and all that was; the voracious, infinite hunger the tears at his soul, invoking him to discover, to observe, to experience all, and everything, and forever.

It stares into him, and it stares out of him, and he is falling into the devouring eternity of its pupil. He wants to cry out in horror, but he cannot.

He. Is. Whole.

And still he does not wake. Wandering his slim collection of gifted nightmares, passing the grey and lifeless remains of severed dreams he can no longer watch, he waits - but not for long - before they all begin again.

ELIAS
You’re doing well, John. I only hope you can continue your growth without my guidance.

[KNOCK ON DOOR]
[ELIAS SIGHS]
[sullenly] Come in.

[DOOR OPENS]
Hello, Inspector. Martin. I’m, uh, sorry to hear about Tim -

MARTIN
Don’t.

ELIAS
And Daisy, I suppose -

MARTIN
Don’t. You. Dare.

ELIAS
I suppose it’s some consolation Basira made it out. And John. More or less.

[MARTIN INHALES ANGRILY]
POLICE OFFICER
[cutting Martin off] Is this him?

MARTIN
- uh - yes.

POLICE OFFICER
Right. Elias Bouchard, you’re under arrest.

ELIAS
[grumpy] On what crime?

POLICE OFFICER
Take your pick. Never had a tape recording of a murder before; something of a novelty.

And that’s not the half of it - plenty of stuff in those files could easily get you a nasty end, if you weren’t careful.

ELIAS
[hmph] No Melanie?

[EXASPERATED SIGH OVER HIM IN THE BACKGROUND]
I would have thought she would have wanted to gloat.

MARTIN
No. I - I, I -

ELIAS
You didn’t tell her. [hm] Worried she might create too much of a scene? I understand. I just hope she… doesn’t hold it against you.

MARTIN
That’s - that’s not -

POLICE OFFICER
[interrupting] Don’t worry, Mr. Blackwood. We will take it from here.

ELIAS
I’m sure you will. However, before we proceed, I have a flash drive in my shirt pocket -

[MORE EXASPERATED NOISES IN BACKGROUND]
- please ensure it gets the Chief Inspector Henderson. It contains various information I think she - and the Metropolitan Police - would be keen not to have released to the public.

POLICE OFFICER
Yes, I was briefed that would probably be the case. Can’t let you go, though - not with all the evidence kindly provided by your colleagues.

ELIAS
I quite understand. I would just hate for my case to be too… truncated -

POLICE OFFICER
[interrupting] Not my place to say, Mr. Bouchard. I’m just here to get you behind bars. You and the chief can discuss the rest.

MARTIN
It’s better than you deserve.

ELIAS
Perhaps so, but I’m glad you were sensible about it. I was concerned you might have bought into Melanie’s… fixation.

POLICE OFFICER
Gave you to us all but wrapped up in a bow.

ELIAS
I must admit I’m impressed, Martin.

[FURTHER EXASPERATED BACKGROUND NOISES AS ELIAS SPEAKS]
I knew you were all planning something, of course, but I didn’t believe you specifically would have the, uh - capacity for boldness that you displayed. [hm] It took me quite by surprise.

MARTIN
You didn’t just see it in me?

ELIAS
Honestly, I didn’t look. For all my power, I will admit I am not immune to making the occasional lazy assumption. I presumed that I knew you thoroughly, but by the time you demonstrated otherwise - well. There was simply too much to keep watching over. I only have two eyes, after all.

POLICE OFFICER
Right, are you all done now?

ELIAS
I believe so. I think we should be fine - provided you make sure the data reaches the Chief Inspector.

POLICE OFFICER
I’m sure she’ll be happy to pick you out a cell personally.

ELIAS
So long as it isn’t the morgue, I’m sure I’ll be perfectly comfortable.

MARTIN
Just be, be careful with him, all right, he can see things - put thoughts and - stuff into your head -

POLICE OFFICER
Like I said: I’ve been briefed. And the situation is being monitored -

ELIAS
Quite unnecessary, I assure you.

MARTIN
Just - please be careful, he’s really dangerous.

POLICE OFFICER
By all means, Mr. Bouchard, why don’t you have a look in my head, and see exactly what will happen to you when you mess with me?

ELIAS
There will be no need for that, Inspector, [small forced laugh] I’m sure we’ll get along famously.

POLICE OFFICER
Good.

ELIAS
Best of luck, Martin. Let the others know I shall be thinking of them.

POLICE OFFICER
Come on, now.

[SOUND OF OFFICER CUFFING ELIAS]
ELIAS
[ow] Are those really necessary?

[SOUND OF ELIAS BEING APPARENTLY PUNCHED IN THE STOMACH]
ELIAS
[gag, wheeze]

POLICE OFFICER
Not really, no.

ELIAS
[strained] I see.

POLICE OFFICER
Let’s go.

ELIAS
[wheeze] Goodbye, Martin. [wheeze] Be seeing you.

[FOOTSTEPS; DOOR CLOSES.]
[MARTIN SIGHS.]
[HIGH-PITCHED, SQUEALING STATIC.]
PETER
Must be a relief.

MARTIN
- Uh -

PETER
Honestly, I thought there’d be more of a scene -

[MARTIN EXHALES LOUDLY]
- but he always surprises me.

MARTIN
[freaking out] What - what are you doing here, Mr. Lukas?!

PETER
Please - call me Peter.

MARTIN
No - no, I think I’m okay!

PETER
As you like. [patronizingly] Look, don’t let Elias get to you -

[MARTIN EXHALES LOUDLY]
- you did very well! Really! I honestly think you managed to surprise him - even if he’d sooner die than admit it.

MARTIN
I’m sorry, I’m - I’m still not sure exactly what this is.

PETER
Oh, right, of course.

[GROWING NON-LUKAS-STATIC-TYPE BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS]
Well: you’ve successfully managed to remove Elias as the head of the Magnus Institute. So…?

MARTIN
Oh - oh, god, what does that do?!

PETER
Oh! No, nonono, no - not in any metaphysical sense, no. He’s still very much the - how did he insist on phrasing it? - ah, yes the “beating heart” of the Institute. But practically speaking, he can hardly fulfill his more mundane managerial duties from a jail cell.

MARTIN
So, he knew this was going to happen?

PETER
Not exactly? He anticipated that you would likely find some way to remove him, so he made alternative arrangements.

MARTIN
Which would be you.

PETER
Exactly!

To be honest with you, Martin, I didn’t expect to be taking over the place so soon, or in quite such a state of disarray. But I’ll do my best to keep the place afloat.

MARTIN
[sigh] …right.

PETER
Oh, what’s that look for? You won! I am sorry if it doesn’t look quite like you hoped, but - here we are!

MARTIN
I suppose so.

So what now?

PETER
Well, if you could send Melanie and Basira up to see me, I’d like to introduce myself. After that, I’ll put through a couple of weeks of paid leave for you all - I think giving everyone some space to try and deal with the loss of Tim and Daisy might do everyone some good.

[MARTIN SIGHS]
Oh, and if you want to talk to a counselor, the Institute will of course cover any cost.

MARTIN
Uh - thanks?

PETER
Don’t mention it. I know how it can be with a new boss. I’d like to help you ease into it.

MARTIN
Is, is that -

…can I… go?

PETER
Of course!

Oh, and Elias said you’d probably be keeping a close eye on the Archivist’s condition, so I’d be keen to hear any developments.

MARTIN
…

…suuuuuure.

PETER
Marvellous. And don’t look so down! I know, change can be scary, but eventually it happens just the same.

I think we’re going to great things, Martin.

Great. Things.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. HOSPITAL, JON’S ROOM]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[A CLOCK TICKS STEADILY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
[THE DOOR OPENS, AND WE GET A BRIEF FEW SECONDS OF HALLWAY NOISE BEFORE IT IS CLOSED AGAIN.]
[WE HEAR A FEW BREATHS, AND A FOOTSTEP OR TO AS WHOEVER ENTERED MAKES THEIR WAY TO THE BED.]
MARTIN
Hi, Jon. (shaky breath)

(pause)

Uh-hh.. How are you? (short pause) (short laugh) Yeah. Yeah, same here. It’s- (inhale) It’s bad all over, (sigh) y’know? [Hold I’m-] getting by, I suppose. Um.. Basira’s keeping things, taking over, and Melanie is– (sigh) Well, well,

[THE “WELL” TURNS INTO A RUEFUL LAUGH.]
MARTIN
Melanie is Melanie. (laugh) Anyway, yeah, just- thought I’d stop by. Check in and uh, y’know. See how you’re, um–

(pause) (sigh) (pause)

We really need you, Jon. Everything’s- It’s bad. I- I don’t know how much longer we can do this. We- I need you. And I- I know that you’re not– I know there’s no way to–

(soft, shaky breath) But we need you, Jon. Jon, please, just– (wet) Please. (trying not to cry) If- If there’s anything left in you that can still see us, or, or some power that you’ve still got, or, or, or, something, anything, please!

(pause, more put together) Please. (inhale, definitely about to cry) I- I can’t-

[HIS PHONE BUZZES THREE TIMES– IT’S ON VIBRATE– HE GASPS SOFTLY IN SURPRISE. WE HEAR HIM GET UP FROM WHAT, PRESUMABLY, IS A CHAIR, AND ANSWER THE PHONE. WHEN HE SPEAKS, HE’S MUCH MORE BUSINESS-LIKE, GIVES NO SIGN THAT HE WAS SECONDS AWAY FROM CRYING NOT EVEN A MINUTE BEFORE.]
MARTIN (PHONE)
Yeah. Yeah, I know.

(waits for response)

I’m- I’m actually with him now.

[HE SNIFFS AS HE SAYS THIS, THE WAY YOU MIGHT TRY TO GET RID OF A COLD.]
MARTIN (PHONE) (PHONE)
You were right.

[HE MOVES ABOUT.]
MARTIN (PHONE)
(waits) (shaky breath) I –

(big sigh)

Will they be safe?

(waits)

Okay. (more confident) Okay. I’ll do it.

(response)

Yeah. Sure thing.

[SMALL SIGH FROM MARTIN.]
MARTIN
(to Jon) I’m sorry. Goodbye, Jon.

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
[THE DOOR OPENS. WE AGAIN HEAR THE BUSTLE OF THE HALLWAY BEFORE IT CLOSES. THE BUSTLE IS STILL AUDIBLE IN THE BACKGROUND AS THE CLOCK TICKS ON. THEN-]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[CLOCK TICKS]
[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
[CLOCK CONTINUES TO TICK]
[SOUND OF SOMEONE SITTING DOWN]
[CLOCK CONTINUES TO TICK]
OLIVER
Um. Hello, John. Do you… mind if I call you John? I, I mean, you don’t actually know me. It’s just, well. “Archivist.” It’s so formal, isn’t it? And I do kind of know you…? Haven’t had much choice, really. Dreams are like that, you know. No matter how lucid you think they are, there’s always that part that just drags you along.

Guess I don’t need to tell you that. At least, not right now.

[sigh] Wish I could tell you why I came here. Wish I knew why I came here. Suppose there’s only so long you can dream about someone and not least try to find them. That was it with the old woman, too. That was different, though. Way I figure iFt, she stuck her nose in just about everywhere it wasn’t wanted and stirred up hornets, ‘till all the precautions in the world couldn’t stop death from finally catching her. [sigh] If I had known more back then, I’m not sure I’d have bothered trying to warn her. Still, you live and learn, don’t you?

Sorry to go on, I, I don’t talk to many people these days. Putting my thoughts outside myself, it gets a bit, er, clumsy. Be easier if you could talk back, right? Ask me questions, and just, have it tumble all out? But no. It’s, it’s just me. Wish there was a better way, but touching someone’s mind, it’s not as simple as that, is it? Doesn’t always make things clearer, you know? Still, I gave the old woman a statement, so maybe I owe you one as well. That’s how it works, right? Give your terror, give your dream? It’s not like I don’t have them to spare.

Hmm.

Let me tell you about how I tried to escape.

OLIVER (STATEMENT)
So. My name is Oliver Banks. In my other statements, I used the name Antonio Blake, but I don’t really think either name has much meaning for me anymore. It’s been almost 10 years since I first started dreaming about the deaths of others. Seeing those awful veins crawling into them, into wounds not yet open, or skulls not yet split. People who are about to die. Every night I watch as they sneak up and into throats about to choke on blood, or lurch into hearts about to convulse. I’ve come to terms with it. [bitter laugh] I’ve learned to live with it.

But about two years before I came to your Institute, something happened. Something I didn’t want to talk about. Didn’t even want to think about. I started to see them when I was awake. It was subtle at first, so quick I could pretend I hadn’t seen. Just a second of them webbed over the face of a drunk old man stumbling into his car. A chain smoker exhales, and just for a second I catch one dangling from his mouth, before it slithers back inside. Crossing a bridge and I might see one snaking along the road, over towards the railing.

Looking back now I feel like an idiot, trying to pretend I was imagining it - that I was just tired, or whatever bull I told myself. It started to happen more often, and I began to avoid the places that I visited in my dreams. I sort of knew, you see, that not all of the cords would have faded when I woke up.

I still remember the first time I tried to touch one. In my dreams the night before, I had found my way back to my own street. I don’t know why I did it; I knew it was a stupid thing to do, walking past my own home in a dream. But I just… maybe I wanted it this way. I mean, when I stepped out the building that morning, I didn’t turn towards the bus stop like I always do. I turned right instead, walked over to the little alleyway where I knew, sometime in the next week, a young woman was going to have a fatal aneurysm. And there they were on the concrete, like a starburst of fleshy roots, spreading and reaching out from the spot where her head was going to hit the ground. They moved just like in the dreams, throbbing and pulsing.

I had to take a moment, just to be sure, just to be completely sure, that I was awake. I felt like I was staring at it for hours, but I don’t think it was much more than a few minutes. They didn’t fade, didn’t vanish, and there was no way for me to pretend that they weren’t there. So, I reached out my hand and tried to touch them.

You know what’s weird, right? In all my years of being a - …what am I? Death prophet? Whatever. - I had never actually touched a corpse. Hardly ever seen one in real life. I could have told you in a moment how many people in this hospital were going to die. How many would do it tonight, even how it was going to happen. But I had never once actually come up close to a dead body. I always assumed they were cold. Not quite damp, but sort of clammy.

Still… this was like ice. No - colder than ice. The sort of cold that just cuts right through you. It was soft and rubbery, squirming when I pressed on it, and recoiling from the tip of my finger. I’ve never felt anything as cold as those veins. It was so… patient. It made me think of those winter mornings, when I was a kid, with no snow, just frost and frozen mist over everything. Keeping the world in place, curling you up into yourself, and quietly waiting for you to lose your footing, to slip up and fall. Snap!

It made me think of dead worlds floating out into space. Places that didn’t know and didn’t care that life even existed. It made me think of mortality, like the seconds that were dragging me to the grave were being pulled out of me.

And the worst part was that, somewhere in me I, I liked it. Underneath all that awful fear, it felt like… home.

After that happened, they wouldn’t leave me alone. I could see them spreading, see them growing. Even when I went to your Institute, tried to warn her, I could see them crawling through the corridors, towards the Archives. They never got quite as big as they were in my dreams, but it wasn’t long before I was seeing them all the time. I tried to avoid them - of course I did - but sometimes I didn’t notice, and I would brush against them. Never mattered what I was wearing, cold would just cut through it like a razor.

I wanted to escape. I needed to. I became obsessed with trying to find somewhere with fewer and fewer people. Moving out of the city helped, but, well. People still die in the countryside. I saw them coiling around a fencepost by the road, climbing up the wall and into the top window of a beautiful little cottage. I’ll never forget seeing a field of cows the week before they were sent to the abattoir.

I’d spend hours researching, desperately looking at remote locations, places far away from civilization, and all its dying people. Lonely summits, deep jungles, deserts where even animals couldn’t live. I was so hungry for the peace that I thought these places could give me.

Then I read about Point Nemo. If you look it up online, they call it the “oceanic point of inaccessibility.” It’s a spot in the middle of the South Pacific Ocean. Specifically, it is the farthest it’s possible to be from any landmass. 1400 miles from anyone or anything. No ships ever need to travel through it, and ocean currents keep away the nutrients that would have normally supported sea life. It is the emptiest, most lifeless place on earth.

Sometimes the closest humans are in the satellites orbiting up above it - before they fall out of the sky, of course. It turns out, Point Nemo is an ideal site for spacecraft to crash-land. There must be hundreds of wrecks down there, taken from the edge of one lifeless abyss and sent screaming down into another.

I loved it. The idea of it, of being so far from anything. Somewhere that there was so little life that death could never find me. Empty clear water, free of those creeping tendrils.

Of course, I had no way to get there. I’m not a rich man, and even if I was, it’s not like I have any idea how to organize a sea voyage. So, for years, it was just my little fantasy. My escape. Whenever it all got too much for me, and I woke up to those veins reaching along the wall, towards my neighbor’s apartment, I would go online, and look at the photos people claimed were taken at Point Nemo. I would revel in the thought that those claims were probably lies, as there was a very good chance that no human being had ever reached the exact coordinates that promised me my escape.

But I couldn’t dream of it. I tried, of course. I spent every moment of lucidity I had trying to guide myself far, far away from land; away from those horrid tubes that sat there throbbing doom out into the world. But each time I started to get away from them - whenever I felt I, I might have reached a point where I couldn’t see any more of them - I would start to feel this tugging on my leg. Like something was wrapped around it and starting to gently squeeze. Something that pulsed very softly.

I never quite had the courage to actually look at it. I’d always just turn around and start moving back towards a city. And it would let me go. I never even got over the channel in my dreams, let alone all the way to the South Pacific.

So, you can maybe imagine how I felt when I found an article, tucked in the margins of a regional paper, talking about an upcoming expedition to sail a research vessel down to Point Nemo. The piece didn’t go into much detail about what they were trying to do - something about measuring the amount of plastic and chemicals in the water, seeing how much impact humans had had on the environment at its most extreme point… I mean, I don’t know.

I’m not a scientist. And I’m not a sailor, either. There was no legitimate way I was ever going to make it onto that ship, but none of that mattered. I had to do it. I hadn’t been sleeping much, I suppose, and I had it lodged into my mind that if I could just get there, to Point Nemo, if I could just… if I could be far enough away from mortality and people and land, then I could rest. I could finally have a dreamless sleep.

So, I did some digging, found the identity of a few crew members, and started to track them down. I told myself that I didn’t know what I was looking for, but I did. Of course I did. And I finally saw them, following along behind Dr. Thomas Pritchard.

He was a younger guy, some sort of chemist, and he had a habit of driving his motorcycle a bit too recklessly. When I saw him that first time, the veins were tumbling out from the open visor of his bike helmet and coiling themselves around his throat so tightly that it almost seemed like his head wasn’t attached the rest of him. Of course, after he went flying over the barrier at 95 miles an hour… well, it’s neither here nor there. It was three in the morning, and the motorway was silent, except for me and the mangled remains of Dr. Thomas Pritchard.

I knew exactly what I had to do. He didn’t look anything like me, not really, but that didn’t matter. All that mattered was my desperation to finally have a good night’s sleep. I looked at his body, but all I could think of was the gentle rocking of lifeless waves. So I took his ID and his keys. Then I touched my very first corpse as I loaded what was left of him and his motorcycle into my van, and buried them in a well-hidden spot near Epping Forest.

It’s strange, after all that. I don’t actually remember how I felt. Heavy, I think.

But I had other concerns. It was a daft plan. It shouldn’t have worked. Someone should have driven past while I was moving him. Someone should have seen me. But they didn’t. With his keys, I let myself into Dr. Pritchard’s flat and gathered as much information on the expedition as I could. It wasn’t a lot - not that I could really understand, and I just had to hope it was enough to pass myself off. Even if it was only long enough to get one good night’s sleep.

As it turned out, I needn’t have bothered. Far as I could tell, nobody on board had actually met Dr. Pritchard in person. A couple of people told me they had “the greatest respect for my work,” and a few did say how different I had sounded on the phone. But once I walked up and said who I was, nobody even bothered to check my ID.

I don’t remember the name of the ship. I mean, boarding it was such a blur I didn’t really notice much, and later on I was far too nervous to ask. It was large, though with every spare inch covered in scientific equipment of some sort or other. I was relieved to find out I was the only chemist on board, so nobody was going to see me misusing anything, and figure out what was going on. At least, not until it was too late to act upon it.

There were a couple of marine biologists on board, a meteorologist, an engineer, someone who called herself a “macro-ecologist” - though at times, she looked almost as out of her depth as I did. Beyond that, there were half a dozen crew running the ship.

They were led by Captain MacAvey, a tall, ugly woman with a sharp tongue, though it was never clear to me whether she was the one in charge of the expedition, or if it was Clara, the senior-most marine biologist. It didn’t really matter, of course. As far as I was concerned, Dr. Pritchard was a private, standoffish person who liked to spend his time alone in his makeshift lab, or asleep in his bunk.

And I did sleep. The further we got from land, the deeper, more peaceful it became. I still dreamed, of course, but I would just wander the empty deck of the ship, drinking in the quiet atmosphere of the place.

I did have to force myself not to look over the railing in my dreams. Once or twice, while staring at the peaceful dream water, I almost felt like I could see something moving, deep, deep below the surface, impossibly huge and dark. I quickly learned the lesson to remain fully focused upon the ship when I dreamed.

Of course, the more rest I got, the more lucid I became. I was thinking more clearly than I had in months, and the absolute foolishness of what I’d done to get there was starting to sink in. There was exactly no way that they wouldn’t figure out that I did not have a doctorate in chemistry or, er, suchlike, and when that happened, I had no idea what I was going to do. I spent days trying to think of some sort of plan, but in the end, the best I could come up with was just to wait for it, and throw myself upon their mercy and hope that they took enough pity on me not to immediately pitch me overboard into the waters of the South Pacific.

But, that was the future. Before then, I had months of peaceful sleep ahead of me. Then, I had weeks. Then days. The ship kept going, powering on towards a destination I wasn’t completely sure I still wanted. I started to wander the decks in my waking hours as well as my sleeping, staring at the horizon. It never ended, but kept getting closer, all the same.

Time is like that, isn’t it? Just keeps going, no matter what happens, it just carries on, and it strips everything away from you in the end, the good and the bad alike, until there is nothing left of either.

“This too shall pass.” “All good things must come to an end.” “Memento mori.”

As soon as I woke up, I knew we had finally reached Point Nemo. Everything felt different - like the calm I had been getting accustomed to had been torn away completely, and where it had been was just this horrible, ice-cold terror.

I felt something on my chest, coiling up my back and pulsing gently around my throat. I didn’t need to look down to know what it was. In a second, I was out of my bunk and charging onto the deck, just to see veins, dark and cold and bigger by far than any I’d ever seen, rise up from the water below us. They towered over the ship for just a second, before starting to wrap themselves around it. For a moment, the embrace looked almost… affectionate.

The rest of the crew didn’t seem to notice, walking through the immense, grasping tendrils like they weren’t there at all, even as the small and branching cords stretched off and wrapped around each one of them in turn. And the soft icy flesh that wrapped around me kept gripping me tighter, and tighter, until I could barely move.

I wanted to scream, but the others were already staring at me as if I was screaming obscenities. Perhaps I was.

At that moment, a sudden calm came over me. I understood it all. I could follow the line of the huge veins that encased the ship down into the water, leading off to a point to almost a mile to the southeast.

There. That was it. That was our fate; where we would always be. Because I was going to take us there.

Running was pointless. To try to escape from my task would only serve to fulfill another. I finally understood what I needed to do. I couldn’t steer a ship myself, of course, but there were plenty of other people on board who could, as long as I could persuade them. Which I did, to a point. I don’t know where I got the gun, but once captain MacAvey was dead, the others were very keen to sail wherever I wanted.

The doom held me tight and pulled us all slowly, inevitably towards our grave. And when we got there, and cut the engines, and began to wait, I could feel all of their eyes look to me, panicked, hoping for some sort of explanation.

I almost tried to give them one. But I barely got the first word out before the falling satellite debris hit the ship at 200 miles an hour, killing us instantly.

OLIVER
Right. That’s, uh, it, I suppose. Maybe you heard me. Maybe you’ll dream. Then again, maybe I just wasted my breath - but, I don’t think so.

Honestly, I’m still not exactly sure why I’m here. But you know better than anyone how the spiders can get into your head. Easier to just do what she asks.

The thing is, John, right now you have a choice. You’ve put it off a long time, but it’s trapping you here. You’re not quite human enough to die, but still too human to survive. You’re balanced on an edge where the End can’t touch you, but you can’t escape him.

I made a choice. We all made choices. Now you have to -

[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
GEORGIE
Can I help you?

OLIVER
Oh, I, I’m a friend. Of John’s.

GEORGIE
Are you, now.

OLIVER
Uh, y-yes.

GEORGIE
Right. Just haven’t seen you visiting before.

OLIVER
Umm, I’ve… been out of town!

GEORGIE
Right. The nurse didn’t say anyone else was here.

OLIVER
Oh! Oh, oh, well. Sorry if I surprised you.

GEORGIE
It’s fine.

OLIVER
…I’m Antonio!

GEORGIE
[sarcastic] Sure.

OLIVER
Do you um, mind giving us a minute?

GEORGIE
No, I think you’re done here.

OLIVER
Oh. Uh… right…

[SOUND OF STANDING UP]
…have I upset you, miss -

GEORGIE
No, you just remind me of someone.

OLIVER
Ahhh, I’m sorry! Were they -

GEORGIE
Evil. Yes.

OLIVER
[resigned] Uh, okay, then. Well, I just, well, I guess I should just go.

GEORGIE
I guess you should!

OLIVER
…Make your choice, John.

[DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES]
GEORGIE
[sigh] Sorry about that, but you really don’t need friends like tha…

….

Did…?

[PAUSE]
[DOOR OPENS AND GEORGIE RUNS OUT INTO THE CORRIDOR]
Hey! Hey, get back here, I need to talk to you!

[CLOCKS CONTINUES TO TICK]
[ARCHIVIST SHIFTS IN BED AND BEGINS TO BREATHE]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. HOSPITAL, JON’S ROOM]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE CLOCK OF THE HOSPITAL ROOM TICKS ON STEADILY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
BASIRA
Well?

GEORGIE
It was just there!

BASIRA
Could he have come back? Moved it?

GEORGIE
I guess?

BASIRA
And you’re sure you didn’t recognize him.

GEORGIE
No, no- he was, um- I’d never seen him before.

BASIRA
But?…

GEORGIE
He, uh, he felt like death.

BASIRA
What, capital ‘D’ Death?

GEORGIE
Yeah. Y’know, one of your… dark gods -

BASIRA
(frustrated) They’re not -

[SHE CUTS HERSELF OFF.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Look, I’m trying to help. You came to me.

GEORGIE
I came to Melanie.

BASIRA
Well sorry. Right now, I’m it.

[SILENCE, BUT FOR THE CLOCK.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
So Jon told you, then.

GEORGIE
Some of it. Not - everything.

BASIRA
Right. So how exactly is it that you’re able to identify an avatar of the End on sight?

GEORGIE
Honestly Basira, it’s not your business. (pause) Sorry.

[BASIRA SNIFFS.]
BASIRA
Alright. And you don’t know why this guy would have left a tape recorder?

GEORGIE
You’re the detective.

BASIRA
And you’re sure it was him who left it?

GEORGIE
I mean - the nurses said there were no other visitors, so (breath) unless it appeared by magic?

[PAUSE.]
GEORGIE (CONT’D)
(disbelief) What, seriously?

BASIRA
I don’t know. The whole tape thing is… I don’t know.

GEORGIE
Right, well… I showed you like you asked, so -

BASIRA
Shh.

[RUSTLING AS SHE MOVES DOWN, GETTING CLOSER TO THE TAPE RECORDER.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Down here.

[MORE RUSTLING.]
GEORGIE
I told you -

BASIRA
This is the one?

[WE HEAR THE ARCHIVIST BREATHING HOARSELY, QUIETLY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
GEORGIE
Sure.

BASIRA
You don’t sound very sure.

GEORGIE
I mean - I don’t know. It might be a different model maybe? I thought it was plastic - but yeah.

[MORE ARCHIVIST BREATHING/SIGHING AS SHE’S SPEAKING; BY THE TIME SHE’S DONE THE ROOM IS SILENT BUT FOR THE CLOCK AGAIN.]
GEORGIE (CONT’D)
So - what does it mean?

ARCHIVIST
(hoarse, tired, drained) That’s a very good question.

GEORGIE
(overlapping) Jon!

BASIRA
(overlapping) Jesus.

ARCHIVIST
(bit of a dry laugh) Sorry. (breath) Didn’t mean to scare you.

GEORGIE
(overlapping) I’ll get a nurse.

BASIRA
Wait.

GEORGIE
Basira!

BASIRA
Jon, is it still… you?

ARCHIVIST
Uhh. Y-yes. Y-yes, I-I think so; I, I don’t know how you’d prove it, though.

BASIRA
Hm.

GEORGIE
Enough - just - stay still; I’ll get a nurse.

ARCHIVIST
I, no, I, uh, (he starts to sit himself up) I’m alright, it’s -

GEORGIE
(overlapping) Stop it!

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) - I’m okay.

GEORGIE
Jon, you are not okay; you have been in a coma.

[RUSTLING.]
ARCHIVIST
Wait - wait - how long?

BASIRA
Six months, give or take.

ARCHIVIST
Six… Uh, the others. T-Tim. Is he…?

[SILENCE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Oh.

[HE LETS OUT A BREATH.]
BASIRA
Daisy too.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry.

BASIRA
Yeah.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Alright - g -

[SOUNDS OF EXERTION- TRYING TO SIT UP FURTHER?]
GEORGIE
Jon.

ARCHIVIST
It’s alright.

GEORGIE
Stay still. Please.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS, THEN TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
GEORGIE (CONT’D)
How are you feeling?

ARCHIVIST
Honestly, I - I, I think I’m alright.

[GEORGIE SIGHS IN EXASPERATION.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I mean that’s - good, right?

[GEORGIE SIGHS AGAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I -

GEORGIE
After a six month coma? No - it’s not. This isn’t how it’s supposed to go, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
I - what? Y-y-you’d prefer I was - brain-damaged? Dead?

BASIRA
Jon.

ARCHIVIST
(shaky sigh) W,W,What?

[PAUSE, BASIRA SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Georgie, could you give us a minute? There’s some things we should probably discuss.

GEORGIE
(overlapping) Fine.

ARCHIVIST
D - Georgie, I -

GEORGIE
Jon. If this really is a second chance, please try to take it. But I don’t think that it is.

ARCHIVIST
(breath) Georgie, I don’t underst -

GEORGIE
Take care of yourself.

[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT ANOTHER SHAKY BREATH. GEORGIE LEAVES, CLOSING THE DOOR BEHIND HER.]
ARCHIVIST
Wh - I - (sigh) (quicker) What about you? Disappointed to see me alive? Basira?

BASIRA
We can deal with it later.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
(small) Yeah.

(breath) Yeah, okay.

[MORE HEAVY BREATHING.]
BASIRA
Do you want me to grab you some water, or…?

ARCHIVIST
No - ah, the, the, uh, the statement. In your, in your bag.

BASIRA
Oh. Yeah, I uh, (unzips her bag) I just grabbed one on the way out; I thought maybe you’d need it for -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping, quick) You, you were right - I, I think it would do me some good. Do you have a tape re - Oh.

[HE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
How did you know I brought one? (pause) Right.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Thank you, Basira.

BASIRA
Hm.

[SHE LEAVES, AND WE CATCH A WHIFF OF HALLWAY BUSTLE AS THE DOOR SHUTS BEHIND HER. JON LETS OUT ANOTHER DEEP SIGH.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of uh, (something catches in his throat, he swallows) Uh, Lorell St. John regarding, uh… (huh) (disbelief) …zombies. Original statement given 1st February, 2015. Recording by (labored breath) Jonathan Sims. The Archivist.

Statement begins.

[AS HE READS THE STATEMENT, HIS VOICE SLOWLY, INCREMENTALLY STARTS TO IMPROVE.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
People always used to tell me I was… solipsistic. They said that I- never really engaged with other people, never acted like they really existed, or mattered, at least not in the same way that I did. I suppose in, in many ways they were right. It’s hard to explain without sounding stupid.

Obviously other people are real - (stammering) O-obviously, the, the way a building is real, or my watch is real. They exist. If people weren’t real, I’m sure I’d find them much less of a chore.

So no, I don’t not believe in other people. I just find it very difficult to feel for others, I, I can’t understand them, and they’ve always seemed…oh there’s no tactful way to say it- they’ve always seemed… pointless. I know what my pain feels like, and I know what my joy feels like, but when I see those same things on the faces of my friends, or my enemies, I feel… Well that’s it, isn’t it? I don’t really feel anything. Their emotions and suffering feel as distant to me as a character on a movie screen. More distant, really.

I-In many ways I find those crude characters that wander through ridiculous plot after ridiculous plot more relatable than the people watching next to me. That said, Danielle did tell me once that films tended to depict characters like that so it’s easier to project yourself onto them. So maybe it isn’t quite as surprising as all that. I like animals, too. They don’t pretend to be important. So, assuming you can understand anything, I would hope that you could understand why the philosophical concept of zombies might worm its way into my mind.

Danielle studies philosophy. W-Well, she studied philosophy. And she was one of those people who loved to talk to other people about it, try to explain it as a way of internalizing the information, so come exam season, her favorite revision method was to try and explain a year’s worth of dusty old white men thinking about existence to me.

She said it really helped, and, well - sometimes I didn’t have anything better to do. It never stuck, of course; it’s all kind of rubbish, really- people trying to think the universe into making sense, coming up with all sorts of nonsense and trying to claim that ‘if you can imagine it it must be true.’ I’m, I’m grossly oversimplifying, of course, but I don’t care. I don’t think Danielle did very well in her exams.

I remember the night she told me about zombies. It was dark outside and must have been late. It was high summer, and the days were long. And sweltering. Our building really kept the heat, and had very few opening windows, so even in the evening that humid warmth seemed to stick around. One of our housemates, Liam, was sat at the other end of the living room, playing some obnoxious video game. He had the lights at that end of the room turned off, and the screen lit up his blank, gormless face as he stared at some space monster or other that he had to kill.

Danielle explained that a philosophical zombie is someone who outwardly displays all the signs of life and consciousness: they talk; they laugh; they scream; they even appear to think. But they have no inner life at all, no actual subjective experience. It’s all a, a rule, a, a conjuring trick. If you cut them, they’d bleed, they might even cry out, but they wouldn’t actually feel any pain, because they can’t actual feel anything. It’s all just an act.

(laughing) I said to Danielle, “Like Liam,” a-and she laughed, at what she assumed was a funny joke, and tried to explain it again, told me they weren’t real, that it was all a, a thought experiment, and the fact that you could imagine them was supposed to counter some other philosopher, who sounded equally meaningless.

But, like I said, I don’t think she got a very good grade, and looking at Liam, blankly staring into that glowing square on the wall, I, I knew she was wrong. They were real. His eyes were so dark, and - dull. Empty windows to a soul that- he didn’t really have.

I started to do some… experiments on him. N-not many, just a few little ones here and there to… see. I suppose you might’ve called them cruel, if Liam was capable of suffering; he certainly pretended to cry out in pain when I accidentally cut his hand while chopping onions, and he did a good impression of grief when his fish died. But his eyes were always the same: cold. And empty.

I didn’t do anything about it, obviously; what was the point? There was no real harm in him going out into the world pretending to live his life; it was no skin off my nose, certainly.

It wasn’t just him, though. There were… so many more of them out there. At one point I did legitimately entertain the notion that they might all be zombies. Every one. That it was just me. That I was the only real person that existed. But, no, that wasn’t right; it was just certain people; I watched their reactions, the emotions they didn’t quite get right, and I knew they were a facade.

It became like a game to me. Watching out for those… soulless husks. Whether on the bus, the street, or even meeting a client for work, I would look into their eyes for just a second, and see the emptiness inside. I tried to make it a game, at least. The truth was, they scared me very deeply. What were they? How did it happen; were they- born hollow, or did something scoop them out, leave them like that?

And the question that kept me up, staring into the darkness late at night- why did it seem like I was the only one able to see them? I saw so many people, real people, chatting with these zombies, talking to them as if they were able to understand what was being said to them, rather than simply pretending. How was it that they couldn’t see the quiet void that lurked behind each of their smiles. And there seemed to be more and more of them every day. Sometimes I found myself utterly alone. Facing down a room full of nothing eyes, willing myself to take action.

I never did, though. Not even when one of them started following me. I first saw him in the street; it wasn’t difficult to guess what he is; half the people around him were just as hollow and soulless. But there was something else, to him. He was tall. But not so tall as to stick out. Thin, but not unhealthily so. He wore a blue t-shirt despite the falling temperature, and his short, dark hair and pale skin surrounded a smile so fake, it practically glowed.

He stared at me as I walked past, not making a move to follow or stop me; nor did his eyes seem to actually… move. It was like one of those paintings that watch you; it just seemed that whatever place I looked at him from, he just happened to be focused on me. In as much as there was any focus in them at all. Vacant.

The next day he was there again, this time in the hallway outside my office, standing in the center, so that I had to hug the wall to avoid touching his… motionless form. He was identical. Except that his t-shirt was now a dull orange.

I asked my colleague Norma what she thought of him, why he was there, and if she noticed anything strange about him. She looked out into the corridor, then, back at me and shook her head. She told me he seemed normal enough. But her eyes were like blank pits, and I knew she was lying about all of it.

Had he done this? Had he taken Norma’s..s-self, h-her soul, or… or had she always been a zombie? * Cramped, into a little open-plan desk, patiently listening to client complaints, and I just hadn’t *noticed? I looked around my office, a low dread starting to build as he waited outside. A numbing cavity wrapped in skin.

I tried to talk to him, when he stood next to me on the bus. I played as casual as I could, trying not to seem afraid when I asked him how his day was going.

“Just fine, thank you for asking,” came the flat, uninterested response.

Then I, I asked him his name. “Just fine, thank you for asking,” he said.

I have never wanted anything as much as I wanted in that moment to cut him, and see if he pretended to scream in pain.

By the time he appeared outside my house, this time wearing a rotten green t-shirt, I could feel a numbness in myself even as I looked at him. Was I finally becoming like them? My internal world melting away into nothing but a pantomime? I remember I ran at him, all my rage burning inside my chest as though desperate to remind myself that I could still feel something.

I think I might have been screaming, but the memory is fuzzy. I remember I punched him in the face, though. When my fist connected, it was like punching a canvas. Taught, dry, and - yielding, ever so slightly, until all at once it broke with a tearing pop and all that resistance was gone, my fist falling into the empty space behind it.

Inside his head, I-I pulled my hand back in sudden disgust, and he looked at me, through the torn and bloodless hole in his head. I could see one blank eye hanging down off his face, still following me, as his split mouth moved to try and form the words that I could hear clear as day: “Just fine, thank you for asking.”

They’re all like that now. You’re all like that, I suppose. I have no reason to believe anyone will - (sharp breath) - read this who would be any different, no reason to believe- (same breath) - you’ll be able to read this, that you won’t simply stare blankly at this page before - performing your response, your artificial opinion. There is every chance that I am -the only one left. And the whole world has fallen to a - soulless horde, devoid of life and feeling. Even so, thank you for.. pretending to care.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sigh) Well that - (breath) - certainly helped, I think. No notes or - followup in the statement, and… (dry laugh) obviously no research done by myself or, uh… my team. I think we can safely say that Ms. Saint-John is not the only person left in the world, though, whatever (inhale) she might be doing now. And whatever might be with her.

They can be hard, though, other, other people. Feelings. I-I’m - I’m trying to focus, trying to make sure I’m the same me as before, but… how can anyone really remember that? How do you know you’re the same person that went to sleep?

[HE SIGHS.]
[THEN THERE’S A FAINT KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(quiet) Oh. (calling) Ah - Uhh, yes - I’m done.

[THE DOOR OPENS, WE CATCH A GLIMPSE OF THE HALLWAY BUSTLE. THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Georgie, is she, um -

[HE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
She’s gone. Didn’t see where.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I wouldn’t have, uh.

[HE SIGHS AGAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Probably for the best.

BASIRA
Yeah.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Better?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes, thank you.

BASIRA
Right. Then I’ve got questions.

ARCHIVIST
So do I.

BASIRA
Me first. What are you?

ARCHIVIST
I - (sigh) (shaky inhale) Honestly? I don’t know. I don’t feel… inhuman, or… I want to say I’m the same. But I don’t-really know if that’s true. I know I’m different. I feel… more real, somehow.

[BASIRA HMS, UNIMPRESSED.]
BASIRA
So what does that actually mean?

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Probably nothing good.

[PAUSE. HE TAKES ANOTHER, LONG SHAKY INHALE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
My turn. What happened to me?

BASIRA
How much do you remember?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t… Music. Everything was wrong. Gertrude was there, and then… dancing, I think. Then, pain. And I was somewhere else. Dreaming.

BASIRA
Dreaming.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. (pause) …You’re… sure, a-about Tim.

BASIRA
Yeah, they um… They found his remains a few days later.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
And- Daisy?

BASIRA
They still haven’t found her body. Probably never will. I thought for a while she might, um… (she sniffs) But, it’s been months. She’s gone.

ARCHIVIST
Just you and me. And - Melanie and M-Martin, I, I guess. (breath) Honestly, I’m surprised Martin isn’t -

[BASIRA TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
What? (realizing) Oh god - the, the plan, it’s - Martin i-is - is he okay, w-what - (he takes a breath to compose himself) What did Elias do?

BASIRA
No, nothing. Elias isn’t the problem.

ARCHIVIST
So - what?

BASIRA
Elias is locked up.

ARCHIVIST
Wait, Martin’s plan worked?

BASIRA
Yeah. A bunch of sectioned officers took him in. He made some sort of deal, I think, but he’s not getting out anytime soon.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. (pause) Wow, uh - o-okay, so - what’s the problem?

BASIRA
He appointed an interim director. Guy named Peter Lukas.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I’ve read about him.

BASIRA
Yeah, I’ve hunted down some of those old statements, and - (small sigh) Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
What did he do to Martin?

BASIRA
I… don’t know. We don’t see him around the Archives much these days. Best I can figure? He’s working on something with Lukas.

ARCHIVIST
No, that - (breath) No, that - that - There must be something else.

BASIRA
Maybe. I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
And Melanie?

BASIRA
A lot’s happened, while you’ve been gone.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Right. (sigh) Well I guess we should probably let one of the nurses know I’m awake. (sigh) I’m sure they’ve got all sorts of - tests to do, make sure I’m not a - zombie, or… (hah) I don’t suppose you brought in any - clothes?

BASIRA
No, I just, you know, grabbed that statement on my way out.

ARCHIVIST
Right, well, uh - I kept some in the - uh - Archives, uh, in my office.

BASIRA
Yeah, those got um - we had to throw those out.

ARCHIVIST
What?

BASIRA
Like I said, a lot’s happened.

ARCHIVIST
S-since I’ve been - (inhale) Fine.

[HE LETS OUT A DEEP EXHALE.]
BASIRA
I’ll get you some new ones. Better ones.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Anything else?

ARCHIVIST
(swallows) Water, please.

BASIRA
Sure thing.

[SHE OPENS THE DOOR AND LEAVES.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh, or, uh, a cup of t -

[THE DOOR FALLS SHUT.]
[LONG PAUSE. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(almost a whisper) Okay. (sigh)

End recording, I suppose.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
(under his breath) Where did the - (sighs)

[SOME SHUFFLING AS HE LOOKS THROUGH PAPERS/WHATEVER’S ON HIS DESK.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(salt) Coma, great! Let’s rearrange his office. Sleeping people don’t need-pens.

[HE STEPS IN SOMETHING WITH A SQUELCH!]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Euagh! What -

[SOMETHING IN THE DISTANCE IS KNOCKING ABOUT. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS AGAIN, DEFEATED, AND GETS UP TO SEE WHAT THE SOUND IS.]
[THE ANGRY KNOCKING SOUND GETS CLOSER AND LOUDER AS THE ARCHIVIST MOVES TOWARDS THE DOOR.]
[THE ARCHIVIST OPENS THE DOOR AND STEPS OUT INTO INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, HALLWAY]
ARCHIVIST
Melanie! It’s very good to, uh - (surprised concern) Melanie? Are you al - WOAH!

[SOMETHING CRASHES. PRESUMABLY IT WAS THROWN AT JON.]
MELANIE
(extremely angry) Get away from me.

ARCHIVIST
Now, Melanie - i-it’s me.

MELANIE
No, no.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I, I, I - I’m back.

MELANIE
(overlapping) No. (after Archivist) Oh! Oh, yeah, back to your happy little family?

ARCHIVIST
What; no! I j - I didn’t mean to-

MELANIE
How did you make it out then, hm?

ARCHIVIST
What?

MELANIE
Tim is dead. Daisy is dead, and you - what, you’re just fine?

ARCHIVIST
What - no! I’ve been in hospital for six months!

MELANIE
Something has been in hospital. Something that’s got your face, like - I warned Basira; I said not to let you back in here, but she just (increasingly angry; starts slamming [the wall]) doesn’t! listen!

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Melanie, Melanie, it’s - it’s me.

MELANIE
Oh! Okay, so it’s what, hi Jon, how are you, get anyone killed lately?

ARCHIVIST
(dumbstruck) I - I -

MELANIE
Wipe that look off of your face. Like you’re not the reason all of this is happening! (she takes a breath) Like you’re any better than [unintelligible] -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) (stammering)

MELANIE
- than him!

ARCHIVIST
- B,B,B,Basira said Elias was gone!

MELANIE
Oh, gone, right, yes, yes, he is (she takes a breath and sighs) he’s gone. Like that makes any difference.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t understand.

MELANIE
No! You don’t, do you? He’s still alive. You are still alive. So this place is still -

[SHE STARTS TO TAKE BIG, HEAVING BREATHS, ALMOST TO THE POINT OF TEARS.]
ARCHIVIST
Melanie, Melanie, this isn’t you-

MELANIE
Get back! off!

[SHE PUSHES THE ARCHIVIST AND HE GRUNTS.]
MELANIE (CONT’D)
You don’t know me. And I don’t know you, so stay the hell away from me or I swear I will -

ARCHIVIST
(as one would to a riled up grizzly bear) Okay.

[MELANIE TAKES A DEEP, GUTTURAL BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Okay.

[HE OPENS AND STEPS BACK THROUGH THE DOOR TO INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
ARCHIVIST
Okay.

[HE TAKES A LONG, SHAKY BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I’m sorry.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
She nearly attacked me, Basira. I know me and Melanie haven’t always seen eye to eye before, but - (sigh) Christ!

BASIRA
Yeah, I did warn you. She’s not uh… She’s not been having a good time.

ARCHIVIST
(oh, really?) Mm. Yes, I did get that impression. (sigh) Elias is gone. I thought - I mean, wasn’t that supposed to be - it. (breath) But she is still -

BASIRA
It’s not that simple.

ARCHIVIST
She needs help, Basira. God, it didn’t even get like that with - (slower, neutral) Even Tim never threatened me. Not like that.

BASIRA
Alright, just back off. You haven’t been here.

ARCHIVIST
O-okay. You’re right. I haven’t. So explain it to me.

[BASIRA SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Alright. Best I can understand it, Beholding, or the Eye, or… whatever you wanna call it, we’re one of the only powers that hasn’t taken a shot at a ritual. Yet. And everything out there knows it.

ARCHIVIST
No - I mean, we can’t be the only ones, surely.

BASIRA
(sigh) I don’t know. Probably not. But we made a big noise with the Unknowing and… other stuff and now they’ve taken notice. We’re safe in here, usually. But we don’t go out much anymore.

ARCHIVIST
Usually.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
You were attacked. When?

BASIRA
About two months ago. It was, uh, it was the Flesh.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, god.

BASIRA
Yeah, it was bad. We took them all out. Melanie did most of them. She was… she got a knife from somewhere and -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Basira I-I don’t know if that’s a good sign?

BASIRA
She saved my life, Jon. She saved all of us. I won’t forget that.

ARCHIVIST
(sighs) Fine. Fine.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Haven’t seen Martin about.

BASIRA
Yeah, he comes and goes. He’s busy.

Well, he seems it.

ARCHIVIST
Working for Peter Lukas.

BASIRA
Don’t be too hard on him, Jon. Your, uh, situation. It hit him. Hard.

ARCHIVIST
(sighs) Yes. Well, I’m sure there are better ways to deal with it than getting - cozy with Elias’s successor. Who I’ve yet to meet, by the way.

[BASIRA LAUGHS, MIRTHLESS.]
BASIRA
Yeah, join the club.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, you haven’t? -

BASIRA
Nope. Never seen him. Far as I can tell, Martin’s the only one who has.

ARCHIVIST
R-right. A-and you’re sure he’s…real?

BASIRA
We get emails from him. Memos.

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS IN DISBELIEF.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
He’s been restructuring. Separating out the departments a bit. Not a surprise, I guess, with his pedigree.

ARCHIVIST
But i-if you’ve never seen him, I mean…

BASIRA
(sighs) Rumor is a couple of researchers up on the third floor decided to ignore some of his new directives, and… whoosh.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, what’s whoosh?

BASIRA
Whoosh. Gone.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

[HE LAUGHS, BUT IT, TOO, IS HUMORLESS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
The more things change… So, we’re under siege, Melanie is aggressively unstable, Martin is working very closely with - The Lonely, who is predictably enough isolating him, and, oh, yes, uh, Tim and Daisy are still dead. (laughing) Which is at least easy to keep track of.

BASIRA
That isn’t funny, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
I know it’s not - (pause) Sorry. It’s just - it’s a lot.

[HE SIGHS, QUIETLY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
And we’ve got an audience. Perfect. I thought you said you decided to throw them all out.

BASIRA
Yep. And I did. And here’s another one.

ARCHIVIST
Maybe it’s hungry.

BASIRA
Seriously.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I did have a statement I was planning to record.

BASIRA
Great. Perfect. You can get on with that, and I’ll just leave, then.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Ah, what do I do if Melanie comes back?

BASIRA
I don’t know. Play dead.

[SHE OPENS THE DOOR AND STARTS TO LEAVE.]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

[THE DOOR SHUTS BEHIND HER.]
[SOME PAPERS SHUFFLE AS HE GETS THE STATEMENT READY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Statement of Angie Santos, regarding a website developed by one Gregory Cox. Original statement given 1st August, 2015. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Okay, for this to make any… real kind of sense, you sort of need to know Greg. Or, at least, understand how he works. Don’t… misunderstand me, please, I, I’m very fond of the man, but I have never in my life encountered anyone quite so… passive. So willing to go along with whatever situation he finds himself in. No matter how awkward or uncomfortable he might be, he just seems to… accept his position.

Actually, now I think about it, it’s more that his being uncomfortable actually makes him more likely to… dig in, to double down on whatever’s happening, as if increasing his investment in a thing will somehow make it easier to endure.

To give you an example, I first met him about seven years ago, when he was twenty-six. At that point he’d just got out of his first real relationship, and it was one that had lasted nearly a decade. To hear him talk about it, it sounded like he’d never actually been happy. I mean, it didn’t even sound like happiness was a consideration for him when thinking about it. For the last - four years of the relationship, she had just treated him worse and worse, taken more and more liberties, and he’d just tried to - shrug it off. He still does. He wasn’t even the one to end things. She’d found herself a rich older guy, fresh from a divorce, and just - disappeared. Something Greg once described as “fair enough, I suppose.”

Oh, as another example, when I was first getting to know Greg, I went for a drink with him, that I mistakenly thought was romantic. I mean, he’s not a bad looking guy. But he’d intended the evening as purely platonic. Do you know how long we “dated,” before I realized what had happened and actually pressed him on the whole misunderstanding? Two months. Sometimes I think if I’d just been a little more oblivious, we’d be married by now.

Anyway, all of this is to try and explain why, when it started to get really weird, Greg didn’t just quit the job. I mean, it’s a freelance web project, and from what he said it doesn’t even pay very well. He wouldn’t be breaking any contract, and (breath) the client hardly ever even gets in touch. There is no reason he couldn’t just walk away, but I honestly don’t think he ever will. And I really don’t know how it’s going to end for him.

I knew it was going to be bad as soon as he started telling me about it; I mean, Greg doesn’t really talk about work unless something’s gone badly and he wants to not listen to me tell him to drop whatever project he’s locked himself into.

And this job was red flags all the way down. (sigh) An email out of the blue from what looked like a personal address rather than a business one. Vague, occasionally contradictory descriptions of what they actually wanted the site to do; I mean - even the email was a bit strange, not the broken or algorithmic English I’d have expected; the short passage was - quite well-composed.

But for some reason, something in it caused the font to appear incredibly large, and Greg had had to scroll through almost word by word. None of it was exactly what you’d call a good sign, but… Greg being Greg, he was taking a train down to Guildford before you know it, to meet the client in person. Small coffeeshop just off the High Street.

As he told it, she was young, rail-thin underneath an oversized brown hoodie, which she kept pulled up, trying to cover up a network of pale stitches that stretched over one side of her head. She didn’t - say much, other than to briefly outline the job. She wanted a forum made, though she couldn’t seem to explain exactly what audience or topic she wanted it to be targeted towards, or why she couldn’t use one of the countless online services that specifically made and admined forums. She just mumbled something about custom requirements and told Greg to drink his latte, which he did, so he tells me, though he can’t stand milk in his coffee. All through it she just kept staring at him, hands pressed into the pockets of her hoodie, occasionally pushing long, spindly fingers out against the fabric, smiling to herself.

I haven’t given the name of this mystery client because, to be honest, Greg’s never told me. I’ve asked him, plenty of times, but whenever I do, he gives me this… surprised look, insists he’s told me before, and then immediately forgets and changes the subject. I know that’s not exactly helpful, but - honestly I’m a bit lost here myself. I mean - none of this feels normal, some of it doesn’t even feel natural. Greg’s an odd one, sure, but - until recently, he’s always been very sharp.

This was all about six months ago. He’s been working on the website ever since. Set up took him all of two days, maybe more, since the client insisted on him coding from scratch. It was bare bones, since he’d been given no copy, or indication of how it was to be organized, except for the name of the site: Chelicerae, which he made sure stood prominently at the top in a tasteful Sans Serif.

The client had requested only a single area where threads could be posted, labeled ‘come in.’ Of course, there was never anything in there. The site was called Chelicerae, but the URL, the web address, was nothing like the name. Just a long string of numbers and letters with no pattern or reason to them, almost impossible to memorize. Once the site was live, Greg would get an email every few weeks with a new domain name, another long string of gibberish, and he would have to change it all over.

There were… other things, though, that the client would email through. Things that she insisted were included not on the website itself, but in the code. I-I’m not really a computer person, but according to Greg, they had nothing to do with any coding language he’d ever seen. Meaningless strings of words, or weird little fragments of poetry, or a name, different every time, repeated over and over again, hundreds of times. He tried to explain to her, more than once, that just pasting these things into the code wouldn’t - cause them to appear on the page, or have any effect at all. But she insisted, so he did it. And he’s been doing it ever since.

He’s on some sort of retainer to administrate the site, and this amounts to changing the domain name every few weeks, checking the statistics that, yes, still no one has visited, and pasting whatever the latest nonsense the client wants in the code. I’d have said it was good money for doing basically nothing, except that for the last two months it’s all started to go… really, really weird.

It started with an email he got from a hotmail address he didn’t recognize. The subject line was simply “Are you the Chelicerae?” At first, Greg thought his client must have passed his details on, but opening the message, there were just four more words: “Please make it stop.”

[THE STATIC OF THE TAPE RECORDER IN THE BACKGROUND GETS LOUDER.]
Now, Greg being Greg, he just - deleted the message and pretended it didn’t bother him. But after he told me about it, I pressed him further, and he admitted that it wasn’t the first unsettling email he’d gotten from strangers about the site. He wouldn’t tell me the others. He kept insisting that I drop it, that it was fine. That I shouldn’t worry. But of course I did worry. I knew that, secretly, he was as well.

I started to do a bit of - searching online, just to see if there was anything we were missing. And there was. A lot, as it turns out. I-It didn’t take more than an hour or so to discover that Greg had apparently found himself the web administrator for an urban legend.

The Chelicerae popped up on the occasional paranormal site or edgy message board, each time accompanied by a now-defunct link. According to those who followed such things, all you had to do was start a new thread as a Guest, something Greg had been instructed to make sure was possible, and the title of that thread should be the name of someone you want dead.

As the stories went, you would receive a reply almost immediately, and it would simply ask you for a story. You would have to write out, and post, in full, a horrible event that had happened to you, or someone that you loved. All the instructions were very clear that the target would only die, if the account satisfied the “Story-spinner.” None of them made any mention of what would happen if it did not.

Pretty standard fare spooky stuff; at least, I would have thought so, if it hadn’t been for the messages that Greg kept getting. Someone more technically adept than him had clearly found his email associated with the site, and had posted about it, so he had become the de facto mailbox for this… (sigh) forum.

Greg swore blind the site had never received any visitors at all, never had a single thing posted in it.

But still the emails came.

[THE STATIC INCREASES INTENSITY AGAIN.]
“Bring them back.” “What is happening?” “I’m sorry I lied.”

It’s been getting to him; I know it has. He’s lost weight. He rarely goes out anymore, and, judging by the cobwebs, he definitely doesn’t clean his house like he used to. I’ve tried talking to him, but it’s like talking to a brick wall that refuses to admit it’s crumbling. That’s why it’s me here rather than him; I mean - I had to talk to someone.

We were… walking home from The Cricketer’s, uhh, a pub just off Horsell Birch. We were heading back to his house, since I’d missed my last train, and when that happened I tended to sleep on his sofa. We were turning down into his road when there was a small voice from a doorway next to us, asking for help.

Now, the last few years there had been a lot more homeless folk around Woking - I know, welcome to Tory Britain - but my point is, Greg usually made a point of giving whatever change he had left from the pub to… whoever we stumbled across on our way back. So when we heard this, he turned towards the voice and held out his hand towards the dark, crumpled shape, offering some change. (pause)

What grabbed his wrist was not a hand. Not exactly, not - anymore. It was coarse and bony and covered in fine, sharp hairs. Greg screamed, falling backwards, pulling the figure under the street lamp where, for a second, I saw it more completely than he did.

It was definitely human once. At least, based on how it was screaming. But it was thin, with bits of twisted and discolored, covered in small, scurrying shapes. Its face was the most human part of it remaining. Except for the two black and hollow spaces where its eyes once were. From which now poured an endless stream of scuttling legs and fangs. Its mouth was full of them too, but I could see, as it grasped desperately at Greg; it was trying to say: “I’m sorry. I’m sorry. Tell her I’m sorry,” but words were not what tumbled from those lips.

We ran, of course; th-the thing was frantic but clumsy, and it wasn’t difficult to get away. I wanted to go to the police, to tell them everything, but Greg - refused, of course. He said there must have been some mistake, that it was just a-a tramp, with an unfortunate condition. That he wasn’t going to bother the police, just because we’d had a bit of a shock. I didn’t have the energy to argue with him. I still don’t, really.

I don’t know what to think. Greg’s my best friend, but I might have to stop seeing him. He’s still working on that site, updating the domain name, still pasting gibberish into the code. I think he might be part of something really awful, and I don’t know how to make him see that.

If I had… a little bit more courage, I might just hang around a few message boards I know, waiting for a link to the Chelicerae. Waiting to post a name that might end it. (pause) I’ve got a story for it, all right. But I won’t. I’m just - too much of a coward, I suppose. So I guess I’m telling it to you instead. For all the good that’ll do.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends. (shaky sigh)

The Web does seem to have a preference for those who prefer not to assert themselves. The investigation is tricky - I don’t want to impose on Basira, and obviously Melanie and - (brief noise) - Martin aren’t available.

But I did do some light searching myself on Gregory Cox. Vanished, unsurprisngly. Sometime in late July 2016, which I think is… (mirthless laugh) two years ago. That doesn’t seem right. It doesn’t feel like - There’s just this great… gap of time where I wasn’t.

No notes or followup here that I can see, just… (sigh) It looks like this statement came in just after Gertrude disappeared. Another gap. And whoever took it didn’t do any follow-up, just… filed it away. I may be the first person to actually read it, so… (same mirthless cough of a laugh) Sorry, Angie. I suppose. (sigh)

There’s a small supplemental document with it, though, that is a - bit alarming. I-It’s apparently a list of people whose names appeared in the various pieces of text Mr. Cox was pasting into the code. It’s unclear if they were meant to be users or victims, but I cannot help but note that there seem to be the names of several statement givers who found their way to the Institute, including noted arachnophobe Carlos Vittery. Perhaps a coincidence, just people shopping their traumatic incidents around, but…but I have to wonder… how much their actions were their own.

I have no theories on this. No - no sudden insights. (sigh) I wish I could talk it through with Martin. Or Tim. Or Sasha. But we never really did that, did we? (sigh) Everything’s changed. (shaky, long breath)

Two days out of a coma, and I’m already tired.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Julian Jennings regarding a cable car journey up the Untersberg mountain in Austria. Original statement given 11th December, 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
The part that really gets me is that it wasn’t even our first time going up that cable car. I mean, none of it makes sense; it was all impossible, and the terrible things that happened while we were hanging there absolutely could not have happened. But given that they did, I don’t understand why they happened to us. There was nothing - special about us, nothing remarkable about our trip. Were we just random bystanders to something awful? We must have been, because I don’t see why anyone would choose for something to happen to us. It must have been the old man, of course, but again, why?

My father passed away almost twelve years ago, now. Pancreatic cancer. I’m sure I don’t need to explain that it was devastating, probably the first true grief I’ve ever felt, but in the years that followed, I found that it brought me much closer to my mum. Her and dad were always something of a unit, you see, and growing up I feel like I had less of a specific relationship with them as people, and more of a relationship with my parents. Not unusual, but once I moved out and started to get on with my own life, we ended up becoming a bit distant. And on the few times a year that I would see them, it was, again, going to visit my parents, without any real thought for the individual relationships.

This all ended with my father’s death. Grief brought mum and me closer than we’d ever been before. I would call her regularly, and I’d make the trip up to Swansea at least once a month, until I finally moved back there four years ago. It was the second year after dad passed that we started our annual holiday together. At first it was just a way to get Mum more… interested in the world again, but soon enough it was a highlight of our year. We’d go for a week, normally, maybe two if I’d kept back enough annual leave. Mum wasn’t great with flights, so we tended to keep ourselves to central or western Europe, though I got her as far as Corfu one year. Her big passion was mountains; we always had to go up a mountain.

Well, to be fair, it wasn’t mountains she loved, specifically; it was views. There was little that delighted Mum quite as much as to see the whole of creation spread out before you like a carpet, and we would always burn through a good number of euros using whatever coin-operated telescopes they’d set out at the lookout spot.

She also found an affinity for the thinner air of high altitudes. I never really understood how that worked, as I thought it was meant to make it harder to breathe, and after a few hours I always tended to get a bit of a headache. But mum took to it like nobody’s business and after a minute or two was always more spry than I’d seen her the whole rest of the year.

Of course, at her age actually… climbing a mountain would have been a bit much, so our holidays were very much intended to be the highest peaks in central and western Europe that could be scaled by coach, train, or cable car. Well-supplied as many European mountains are with public transport options, this did limit us a bit. So, that’s why this year we found ourselves returning to Salzburg, one of our first ever destinations, and to Untersberg, one of our favorite mountains. It towered distantly over the city. It was a marvelous view, if I recall, although the quickest and most reliable way to reach it was unfortunately by cable car.

You see, I don’t do amazingly with heights. I wouldn’t describe it as full vertigo, and certainly when we’re actually at the top of the mountain, I don’t have any problem at all if I steer clear of the edges. But, traditionally, getting from sea level up to the top is something of a trial to me, to say nothing of coming back down. I’ve never really shared these fears with Mum, of course; she got so much joy out of it that I wouldn’t want to worry her.

Anyway, I remember the cable car up and down Untersberg was a particularly uncomfortable one for me. As the car accelerated towards the rickety looking pylons, there was this judder as the runners abruptly changed angles, and the car would swing back and forth in such a way that I had to sit down on the floor. I told Mum this was because I found hard to balance, but honestly it was so I didn’t have to look out the window at the ground almost a mile below.

When we arrived at the cable car station this time I was relieved to see that they had seemed to have replaced a lot of the structure since the first time we were there. The cables stretched up the mountain, fresh and strong, though still with that disconcerting curve t them, and there was a shine to the cars themselves that I really hoped wasn’t just a fresh paint job.(laugh) Mum appeared quite composed, but in that way she does when she gets excited, and we bought our tickets and joined the queue without any problems.

It was near the end of the season, and we’d arrived as early as possible, so the queue in this case only comprised of one other passenger: an old man with stark white hair and a gentle, amused smile. He had a walking stick in his hand, though his back was straight as an arrow, and it seemed like he only remembered to use it in those moments when he noticed he was still holding it.

The day was clear, and the sun illuminated the inside of the car as we stepped over the gap from the platform. I knew we would be able to see for miles and miles from the top, something I was looking forward to doing when I had my feet firmly on the mountain, less so from the swinging car.

The driver stood in the corner of the tiny metal box, looking at us with a bored expression and making some final checks on the controls, which amounted to two buttons and a phone. I sat, slightly unsteadily, on the rough steel bench, as mum and the old man took positions at two of the windows with the best view. The driver nodded to himself, slid the door closed, and turned a key in the control panel. There was a shuddering through the whole structure of the car as the wheels above us began to turn, and we began to climb towards the peak.

In some ways, the first minute is the worst. The climb takes just over eight minutes in total, but in those first few seconds you can see all the detail of the ground as it falls away from you, and you feel every meter of that widening space of open air beneath your feet, held at bay by a floor that seems… far too thin.

By the second minute, I’d calmed down slightly, the angle of the cable and our speed of ascent having leveled out, and the third minute was… almost peaceful. I risked a look over to mum, stood at the window looking out with a serene smile at the retreating ground. I glanced over to the old man, whose face beamed with excitement and… anticipation.

Minute four was when we hit the first of the three support towers, and the sudden change of angle and speed sent me gripping the edge of my seat, staring resolutely at the floor and willing myself to ignore the swaying of the car.

The fifth minute, I risked another look out the windows, just as we hit the second tower, and my stomach lurched. I sat back down again quickly, hoping the shaking of my legs wasn’t audible to my mother, still staring out of her chosen window.

The sixth minute was the last stretch with just open air below us, and it would have been the final part before we hit the last tower and started traveling over the mountain itself. But that’s when the car came to a sudden, juddering halt.

Panic immediately pumped through me, and I clenched my teeth together to try and hold in a cry. I took a moment and let out a shaky breath. It was fine. This sort of thing happened all the time, no doubt; just a small delay. Someone at the top taking too long for the car coming down the other way, maybe.

I glanced at the driver, and, sure enough, he had a look of puzzlement and irritation on his face, but nothing that could be read as concern, or fear. He picked up the phone next to the controls and started speaking annoyed German into it, but from his expression it didn’t seem like he was getting any answers. I heard similar sounds of irritation from Mum, and gingerly looking over, I noticed that some low-level clouds had come about us, and the window was now covered with a fine, swirling mist, obscuring the view below.

The weather had been forecast as clear skies - but it wasn’t unheard of. I would have hoped that not being able to see the earth, far below us, would have blunted the terror I felt as we hung there, swinging gently, but instead it seemed worse, as all I could now picture was an unending, terrible void, stretching out below me.

I heard a small chuckle, and looked over to see the old man smiling to himself, his walking stick discarded on the floor.

What happened next was so fast I barely had time to process it. The old man turned towards the door of the cable car, the door I had seen the driver secure and lock when we first boarded… and he walked over to it. He gripped the handle, and with a single, easy motion, flung it open.

The driver saw what was happening and started to lunge to grab him, but it was too late. The old man turned back for just a second, looked me in the eyes and gave me a huge, theatrical wink. Then he fell backwards, out of the car, and was gone, into the swirling air beyond.

The driver shouted - something - and my mother let out a shriek, but the sounds disappeared into the muted skies surrounding us. The driver was back on the phone, desperately trying to get someone on the other end as the door just hung there, open into the nothingness beyond the car.

I wanted to act, to help, to do something, but I was pinned to my seat, with a confused fear. Then, without warning, and without any input from the driver, the car began to move again. It traveled upwards, gaining speed and swinging with such force I was afraid that we’d all we thrown out of the open door.

One minute. Two minutes.

Three minutes.

We should have hit another tower, or the top of the mountain by now, but we just kept going, higher, and higher, the clouds surrounding us tighter, flowing in through the open door. My mind had all but seized up, and I felt helpless to do anything but watch as events progressed.

I don’t know how long we climbed before the car stopped again. Mum was crouched on the floor, now, gripping the handlebars above her for stability, and the driver was trying to get any response from the controls. The brakes finally started again with such grinding force that we must have pitched almost 45 degrees forward. Then back again. Then forward. I could feel nausea wash over me as I was almost thrown forward onto the floor. Then everything was still again, save for the gentle swaying.

The car remained in place for some time. I think we were all just waiting, for whatever was coming next. None of us spoke, and looking over at Mum I could see my own fear mirrored across her face. After a while, when everything had calmed down, the driver looked over to us. We were all quiet, afraid, I think, of breaking the stillness we found ourselves in. But I saw him start to edge towards the door. I knew what he was trying to do. He wanted to close it, lock it back in place and get some semblance of control back.

I wanted to tell him to stop, to warn him about - whatever was about to happen, because I knew something was about to happen. But I could only stare at him as he slowly, achingly crawled towards his doom.

Sure enough, as he approached the opening, his hand just starting to reach out into the mist, I heard something on the cables stretched out behind us. I didn’t turn around, but I could hear rhythmic, scraping sounds of something crawling rapidly towards us. I saw Mum’s eyes focus on something behind my head, and she screamed. It was a sound I’ve never heard her make in my whole life, and one that I will never forget.

There was a thump from above, the sound of something heavy landing on the roof of the car, and the driver froze, arms still outstretched. His eyes widened in sudden realization, but before he could pull back from the edge, an arm, long, grey, and completely inhuman, reached down from above with terrible speed. It grabbed his wrist, just for a moment, and then he was gone, his own scream vanishing into the abyss beyond the door.

In the quiet that followed, Mum and I just stared at each other, neither of us knowing what we could do except wait for whatever fate was…squatting on top of the cable car. Then came three bangs, one after another on the roof of the car. Knock. Knock. Knock. Then a laugh. A terrible whistling sound, like the howling of a gale. And then…

I don’t know when I noticed the green light on the control panel. The one next to the button the driver had held when we first started the journey. It certainly hadn’t been lit the last time we were moving. Maybe not since the first time we stopped.

I couldn’t afford to let hope come into my heart, knew that would be too cruel, but I also knew I couldn’t ignore it. I finally, painfully stood up. My whole body was shaking so violently I thought I would collapse before I’d even taken my first step, but little by little I inched my way towards it, never taking my eyes off the green light. Never looking towards the door.

When my fingers finally found the button, I slammed it with all the strength I had left in me, and I felt the car begin to move upwards again. I have no idea if whatever was on top of the car was still there, but when I saw the third tower rising up out of the clouds, I could feel myself weeping with relief. I didn’t even feel the juddering as we hit it.

I don’t remember much after that. I don’t think I was making much sense. I know it took them a long time to get us back down from the top of Untersberg without using the cable car. I remember talking to the police, even if I don’t remember whether I told them the truth.

I think the official story became that the driver, a man named Otto Hessler, had killed himself halfway up the mountain by leaping to his death. The body was never found, and the report made no mention of an old man.

I still get nightmares, of course, and my fear of heights has worsened considerably. I’ve tried talking to professionals about it, but for the most part they treat it as though I’m talking in metaphors. And I generally let them believe that.

The worst part is the strain the whole affair has put on my relationship with my mother. She… refuses to admit any of it happened, repeating the same version of events given by the Salzburg police. She looks me right in the eyes and tells me she doesn’t know what I’m talking about, that there was no old man or clouds. Nothing climbing the cables behind me. We both know she’s lying. I don’t know if there’ll be any more holidays, certainly none that involve mountains. (shaky breath)

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sighs) Simon Fairchild is one of the… recurrent figures that I think disquiets me the most. Not simply for what he does, the endless spaces of height or depth to which he’s so quick to condemn his victims, but… the joy he seems to take in doing so. And I don’t think there is much to this tale beyond that; an evil man tormenting and killing simply for his own pleasure, and to feed the power that sustains him. (sigh) In other cases, I might…think the location noteworthy, might try to piece together some wider plan, but Fairchild seems to travel far and wide for his victims, with no motivation other than… variety. I do not think I ever wish to meet him.

Of course… even if I did want to do research into this statement I wouldn’t have any help doing so. It’s been a week and Melanie’s attitude towards me hasn’t softened. And Basira, though she is very willing to talk, still doesn’t seem to trust me enough to let me in on whatever plans she might have. If she has any plans at all, of course. I could - make her tell me; I know that, but… I can’t afford to burn any more bridges.

Still no sign of Peter Lukas of course, (sighs) or Mar -

[A SMALL STATIC BEGINS TO BUILD SLIGHTLY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Wait. Wait.

[HE GETS OUT OF HIS CHAIR AND OPENS THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Martin! (slightly louder) Martin!

MARTIN
(surprised) Oh - (pause, seems to compose himself) Hi, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Martin, i-i-i-it’s - I-I, I-I haven’t seen you!

MARTIN
Yeah. Sorry.

ARCHIVIST
W-What, where, where have you been, I, I mean I,I thought -

MARTIN
Oh - No, no I’ve, I’ve been here, I just, um, y’know… been busy.

ARCHIVIST
Busy.

MARTIN
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Working for Lukas.

MARTIN
Ah, N-no, P-Peter’s - (sighs) [[clipped syllable]] (composes himself) It’s complicated.

[BEAT.]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Anyway, I… should, uh [get back to] -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) H-how are you, Martin? I-Is everything…

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, no, I’m, I’m alright, uh… everything’s… fine.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Um… how’s… h-how’s the poetry?

MARTIN
Oh, uh, well, I haven’t exactly had a lot of time recently, so…

ARCHIVIST
Yes, of course. (Martin *hm*s) You’ve been busy.

MARTIN
Yeah.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Look, Jon, I - (sighs) I’ve really got to go -

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh. Okay.

MARTIN
(overlapping) I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) W,w,we’ll - it was - good - (softer) It was good to see you.

MARTIN
…Yeah.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS UNDER HIS BREATH AS MARTIN WALKS AWAY.]
ARCHIVIST
Yeah…

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sergeant Terrence Simpson, regarding an outbreak of violence in the crofting community of Lancraig, Ross-shire. Original statement given 19th July, 1993. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
The thing is I wasn’t even responding to a call out. Well, I mean I was, but it was a break-in about ten miles further on, and I just wasn’t in a hurry. I mean, Lancraig is the sort of place you don’t even notice you’ve been through if you’re not looking. A half mile of road with a handful of white or stone cottages dotting the fields. Nothing you’d recognize as a shop, and it’s two miles the other way to the post office.

Lancraig is what they write on the map, but to most people it’s just… more empty highland. It’s like that with a lot of old crofting communities. They’ve all got their little parcel of land for farming and a big ol’ stretch to keep the sheep together, but it’s a poor life, really, and hard work. Lends itself to isolation well. Too well, sometimes.

I knew Callum McKenzie, or at the very least, he knew me. Again, not well, but North Highlands police tend to serve a lot of very small communities, and (laughs) I stood out like a sore thumb. He called me “the bastard English,” but he always did it with a smile on his face. His little house served as pub for those minded to use it; he didn’t have a license, but if the landlord didn’t mind, who was going to raise a stink about it? I could’ve, I guess, but it would have been a damn stupid thing to do, turn them all against me. He even showed me the still he kept out back, once, and I’m very thankful I was on duty at the time, or I might’ve had to drink some out of politeness.

So I’m driving, heading over towards this break-in over in [Delnessy,] when Constable Carla Ross, my partner, starts telling me to slow down. Now, Ross had known Callum a lot longer than I had, being about ten years my senior on the force, and had a good twenty years experience policing these communities. I dropped speed, and she stared out at one of the crofts next to us, making this little noise of uncertainty. I was just about to speed up again when she gasped, and yelled to stop the car.

There wasn’t really anywhere to park, but the road was wide enough to pass on, and barely saw two cars in an hour, so I just stopped where we were, and we got out. Staring out over the low, stone wall, I could see a figure, stood in the middle of the field. Took me a moment to recognize Callum McKenzie, holding a pitchfork as he looked out over his croft.

But no… the angle was wrong. He - he wasn’t holding his pitchfork, he was just - gripping the handle. And I realized, with a jolt, that the sharp tines were buried in his stomach.

From this angle, I could just about make out the ends of them, protruding from his back. And suddenly everything seemed very still. Ross acted before I did; she vaulted over the wall and started running towards Callum, calling his name, and I followed a second after her. But then he turned, and we both stopped short. I can’t exactly say what it was in his turn that so unsettled me. Maybe it was too violent, too smooth. It seemed like the pitchfork should have flown out of him, but it stayed wedged in place.

Maybe it was something in his eyes, or that smile of his. Or maybe just the sheer amount of blood on him that didn’t seem right for the neat punctures that we’d seen. Then he turned, and began to run towards us at a dead sprint, pushing the handle that protruded from his torso towards us like a battering ram. I called to him to stay still, to wait there, while we got help, but he just. Kept coming.

Then Ross told him to stop, and I could hear in her voice that she was afraid of him. I was, too. As he got closer, I saw him let go of the bloody pitchfork and drop his hands to his sides like claws. Broken glass was pressed into his fingers, glinting red in the morning sun, and I knew with absolute certainty that he intended to kill us.

The moment before he reached us, I grabbed the handle that still stuck from his belly. It was pure instinct, and my hands exploded in sharp pains as splinters from the rough wooden handle dug into my fingers and palm, but Callum McKenzie stopped dead, with a horrible lurch as the metal prongs buried themselves still deeper. Ross stood there, baton in hand, clearly desperate not to use it as Callum swung his glass covered arms at me, trying to slash my face, and coming within an inch or two of doing so, only kept at bay by the distance of the pitchfork’s handle.

I finally got a look at his eyes, expected to see mania, or a glassy stare… but when they met mine, they were clear, and focused. His smile got wider. “Bastard English,” he snarled, and paused a moment, assessing the situation. With a grunt of effort, he pushed himself further onto the tines of the fork, moving slowly, agonizingly up them, desperately trying to make it those last few inches to reach my throat.

Then there was the sound of something tearing, and I think he must have ruptured something, because his legs went out from under him, and where blood had been oozing before, it now began to gush. He choked, as it started to fill his throat, and I tried, I really tried, to reach out and help him, but he still slashed out at me with those mutilated hands. And I couldn’t get close enough.

Then it was quiet. Ross still stood there, baton raised in exactly the same position, seemingly frozen in confusion, and disgust. She looked at me as if I might have any explanation, but what the hell was I supposed to say? We just kept looking at this broken man, her friend, who had literally killed himself attacking us.

I went back to the car to radio for help, but it - it didn’t seem to be working right; all I could hear from it was the - (steadying breath) - faint noise of static, and… what sounded like bagpipes. I walked back over to Ross, who was now crouched over the body of Callum McKenzie. She looked up at me and shook her head slowly. Standing back up, I could see her hand was slick and red. Then she pointed silently over my shoulder.

My breathing was erratic, and I could feel the tell-tale signs of shock beginning to creep into my body, but I forced myself to turn around. All I could see was the white, one-story cottage behind me. But then my eyes fixed on the broken window, and the streaks of blood around the door. I knew what she was thinking, and I just nodded, took out my own baton, and quietly approached the small house.

It was… silent. No sound at all, save the bleating of a sheep in a nearby field. I’ve never quite got the hang of sheep. I know that sounds daft, but… it’s their throats, you see. They’re so like humans, that when they… baa, it doesn’t - it doesn’t sound like a sheep - Does that make sense? It sounds like a person pretending to be a sheep. Sheep don’t kill each other, though. Not like this.

Anyway, the sound didn’t exactly do anything to put me at my ease. When we entered the house, I instinctively reached out for a light switch, but couldn’t find one. A-a lot of these old crofter places don’t have any electricity, or at least not mains power. It didn’t matter, though. There were plenty of windows to light up the scene in front of us.

The fireplace had long since burned out, but the rocking chair next to it was still occupied. An elderly woman sat there, a blanket over her legs, and a crossstitch frame in her lap. If it wasn’t for the cook’s knife that pinned her to the chair through the throat, I’d have almost called her serene. Her feet didn’t quite touch the floor, so the draft from the open door rocked her back and forth, back and forth.

On the floor in front of her, two corpses, middle-aged, with rough, weathered faces, were entwined together in an embrace that, almost looked affectionate. Until you saw the blood staining their teeth and hands, or the ear still clenched in the younger man’s smile, fresh torn from the other’s head. They had each had their own throats cut, crudely, and plastered across their faces was a smile that seemed to occupy a frozen space halfway between ecstasy and an all-consuming anger. Neither of them had any fingers left at all.

Their murderer was in the kitchen, head forced into an oven, now cold, and burned beyond recognition. The bloody vegetable knife was limp in her hand, and the glass embedded in the back of her neck placed her death firmly at the feet of Callum McKenzie. At this, Ross let out a small cry, and left the room to be sick.

I was feeling completely numb by now, and felt nothing but a dull fascination when I saw the circle pattern of cuts on the dead woman’s arm. The angles made it almost certainly self-inflicted, and it gave the impression the skin was a simple tug from coming away like a peeled potato.

The back door was kicked in, and I could see a small lump of pink flesh just beyond it. And then another. The ground was disturbed as if by a struggle, and I suddenly realized what had happened. Ross had returned by now, shaking and pale, but just as quiet as I was, and together we followed a trail of bitten-off fingers like breadcrumbs taking us home. Home, in this case, was the lawn just outside the cottage of Angus Stewart, an acre or so of land he kept clear for meetings or parties or… whatever other events the tiny community might find they needed space for. Yesterday, it had been the parking of a small sky-blue transit van.

I recognized it of course. It belonged to a young lady from Inverness - I never got her name - who ran a small, mobile lending library that traveled around the villages and crofts of the highlands. Now, she lay at the center of… absolute carnage. Eventually it would be conclusively established that all sixteen other residents of Lancraig were there, though to simply look at the scene it was impossible to tell mud from blood from flesh from bone, and I thank god every day that not one resident of that poor, doomed place had children.

The head of Angus Stewart leered up at me from the ground, lips parted in that same expression of fury and joy, cheeks latticed with steel sheep wire. A sudden thought struck me, that, since our struggle on arriving with Callum McKenzie, neither myself nor Constable Ross had made any noise at all. If there were survivors, they had no way to know it was safe.

Abruptly, I shouted, calling for anyone who might still be alive, telling them they could come out. I tried to ignore the edge of panic in my voice, but my only answer was the mocking bleating of sheep, and those impossibly distant pipes. Ross glared at me, clearly startled by my shouting, and stepped gingerly through the dirt and viscera towards the center. Neither of us could pretend we cared about preserving evidence at that point. These people, good people, had slaughtered each other for no reason at all, and there was nothing we could do to change that fact.

I don’t know exactly how the woman who ran the library van died - at a certain point the injuries sort of all seemed to… bleed together, if you’ll excuse the expression. All I could see for certain is that she held a book in her hands. It was a paperback, old and unloved, with obvious signs of wear long before it found itself in this chaos. The cover and title were unrecognizable, now far too soaked in blood, but it was clear that at some point while holding it, the woman had torn it, clean in two down the spine, and now held half in each of what was left of her hands. Ross told me later that she’d gotten a good look at the pages, and that every single one of them was blank.

That was when our backup arrived. It looked like whatever strangeness had affected the radio had been only on our side, and my frantic messages had reached the station loud and clear. It was a whole mess, for a long time - you might have read about it in some of the papers; I think the official report covered it as a ‘drunken brawl that got out of hand.’ It wasn’t, obviously, and no one who was actually there signed the report, but almost everyone who actually dealt with the scene got signed off several weeks with stress, so… didn’t get to have much say in the matter.

There really didn’t need to be any proper cover-up. It was an isolated place, and the folk who had still been living there were on the older side, with little real connection to the outside world. I guess the media doesn’t really care about crofters, especially once the police had swept up the more gory details.

I moved back to Macklesfield shortly afterwards. It pretty much ended my marriage, since my wife was why I’d moved up to Inverness in the first place. (shaky breath) But I just couldn’t go on up there. I can’t stand the sound of bagpipes, and sometimes, at night, I still hear sheep in the distance.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends. Hm. An Englishman returning from Scotland with a fear of bagpipes and sheep. I’m sure we can all relate. (hm) In many ways the Slaughter fascinates me. There seems to be, in all cases, a question at its heart about control. Is it a mindless dance, dragging participants along by the beat of a drum, or is there a kernel of will in there, lucidity and deliberateness to the random fury and violence? I suppose that’s the question with so much of violence, war. How much are you really in command of yourself, or others?

I’m not sure what scares me more: the idea that deep down, everyone is in complete control of their actions, that everything is, on some level, intentional; or that ultimately we don’t have any control of ourselves at all, and the rest is just… rationalization. (shaky breath)

Another Leitner, obviously. Not one I can readily identify, though it sounds like it would now be… inert, anyway. Given the blank pages, I do wonder whether its destruction was a last-ditch effort to stop its effects, or the exact thing that released its power in such an… extreme way. Regardless, I’ve hit another research dead-end with this.

It’s… frustrating, to be honest. I finally feel myself; I feel… focused, and ready, and I find myself basically alone. I’m now sure Martin is actually avoiding me. (shaky breath) Basira was right about the Institute being watched, though. In the last week I’ve seen two different people wearing symbols for the People’s Church of the Divine Host, and it’s rare I go anywhere without cobwebs, anymore.

I, uh, find myself keeping my guard up around mannequins, as well, though I’ll admit, that one is more likely to be my own projection. (sigh) But honestly it’s the internal threats I’m worried about. Peter Lukas is just - sitting up there, doing whatever the hell it is he and Elias have planned, and Melanie -

[THE ARCHIVIST DOESN’T NOTICE, BUT LOW STATIC BEGINS AND IMMEDIATELY BEGINS TO INCREASE IN VOLUME.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
- still has that bullet pumping violence into her, waiting to turn this place into another Lancraig. I just wish there was - (confused) What? - (continues)

Wait. I d-didn’t - Did I read that somewhere? Or…

(lets out a breath) Well, right, yes. (clears his throat) The bullet didn’t show up on electronic or mechanical scans, but it’s still lodged in her leg, just above the tibia. And it’s been getting slowly infected ever since - I need to find Basira.

[HE GETS UP TO LEAVE.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, MELANIE’S CAMP BED]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure about this?

BASIRA
No. But if you’re right, I don’t see what choice we’ve got.

ARCHIVIST
No, I mean…

BASIRA
Oh, yeah, the stuff she takes is pretty strong these days. She should be out for a while. (off of Archivist) What, sleep is hard.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
You’ve been staying here too.

BASIRA
Got a camp bed at the other end, near the tunnels. I like to keep an eye on them.

[SHE STARTS OPENING A BOX.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Besides, I wanted to give her some space, you know?

[SOME PACKAGING CRINKLES AS IT’S HANDLED.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
But, yeah, living outside the Institute’s just not safe anymore.

ARCHIVIST
What about Martin?

BASIRA
I think he’s still got a place? He’s not down here, anyway.

ARCHIVIST
Right. (breath) So, how, how does the -

BASIRA
Do you want to get on with this or not?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, right, sorry. You, uh, you managed to get the anesthetic?

BASIRA
Here. The guy said it was a nerve block, should numb pretty much the whole leg.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Right. Was it hard to come by?

BASIRA
(flat) No, I just popped down Superdrug.

(duh) Yes, it was hard to come by.

ARCHIVIST
Do - you couldn’t get any general anesthetic, knock her out fully?

BASIRA
Oh, sure, did your spooky brain tell you the right dosage to not kill her?

ARCHIVIST
N-no, it didn’t.

BASIRA
Then it’s got to be the local.

Here, get on with it.

ARCHIVIST
What, me?

BASIRA
Yeah. She comes around, she’s going to kill someone, and, you know, not it.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Fine, give it here.

[HE OPENS THE BOX.]
BASIRA
The guy said you’d need to hit the right nerve for it to work. Do you know much about -

ARCHIVIST
Here.

BASIRA
You sure?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

BASIRA
Okay, go for it.

ARCHIVIST
(steadying breaths) Right.

BASIRA
And pray the injection doesn’t wake her.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, thank you, Basira. You’re sure we shouldn’t just… tell her?

BASIRA
I really don’t know how she’d take it. Not well. If we want to get it out of her, this is it.

ARCHIVIST
…Okay.

[SILENCE AS HE STEADIES HIMSELF, THEN INJECTS HER WITH THE ANESTHETIC. A SHAKY BREATH OF RELIEF AS NOTHING HAPPENS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Right. How long does it take?

[RATTING AS BASIRA CHECKS THE PACKAGING AND/OR THE NEEDLE IS PLACED BACK IN ITS BOX.]
BASIRA
About half an hour, he said.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
You better be right about this.

ARCHIVIST
I am.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, MELANIE’S CAMP BED, THIRTY MINUTES LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST SOUNDS MUCH CLOSER WHEN HE SPEAKS. HE’S WHISPERING, A BIT.]
ARCHIVIST
Right, pass me the scissors.

BASIRA
What? I thought you had the scalpel.

ARCHIVIST
For the trouser leg!

BASIRA
Oh - right.

[SHE HANDS HIM THE SCISSORS, AND HE CUTS THROUGH THE LEG OF MELANIE’S TROUSERS.]
ARCHIVIST
God, look at that.

[THAT SAME STATIC FROM EARLIER IN HIS OFFICE IS BACK, AND IT AGAIN BEGINS TO INTENSIFY.]
BASIRA
I don’t - It’s a leg.

ARCHIVIST
No, inside.

BASIRA
I don’t know what you’re seeing, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
It’s - christ, it’s all rotten.

BASIRA
Can you see the bullet?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

BASIRA
You’re ready?

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS DRYLY.]
ARCHIVIST
No. You’re sure you don’t have - restraints, or -

BASIRA
You think she’s going to sleep through being tied down? I’ll try and grab her if she wakes, but…

ARCHIVIST
(takes a deep breath) Okay. Here we go.

[ONE LAST SET OF SHAKY BREATHS BEFORE HE BEGINS TO CUT INTO MELANIE’S LEG IN THE WORST FORM OF HOMEMADE SURGERY. WE CAN HEAR THE SQUELCH OF THE SCALPEL AS IT HITS FLESH, AMIDST JON’S BREATHING.]
[THEN THE BULLET IS REMOVED, AND BOTH BASIRA AND ARCHIVIST LET OUT RELIEVED SIGHS. AT LEAST, UNTIL -]
MELANIE
GET OFF ME! GET OFF OF ME!

[SOMETHING SLAMS, MOST LIKELY MELANIE LASHING OUT. THE FOLLOWING IS CHAOS, ALL OVERLAPPING AND CONFUSION AND SLAMS AND MISHANDLED MEDICAL EQUIPMENT: ]
ARCHIVIST
OH JESUS; Get her, she’s awake -

MELANIE
GET AWAY!

[MELANIE PUSHES SOMETHING AND IT CRASHES ON THE FLOOR, LIKELY EITHER THE SCALPEL OR THE SCISSORS.]
ARCHIVIST
[She’s] not supposed to [unintelligible] -

BASIRA
Melanie, it’s okay -

ARCHIVIST
Listen, what the [an-]

BASIRA
Melanie, I’ve got you_[r]_ [unintelligible] -

MELANIE
DON’T TOUCH ME -

[SHE STABS JON WITH SOMETHING, AND -]
ARCHIVIST
AAAH! AAAAH!

MELANIE
I’LL KILL YOU, I’LL KILL YOU -

BASIRA
Alright, [I’m right] behind you; Jon, run.

ARCHIVIST
[unintelligible] [let’s] go.

BASIRA
Just go!

ARCHIVIST
[I don’t think she] knows -

MELANIE
I CAN’T FEEL MY LEG; I CAN’T FEEL -

ARCHIVIST
It’s just anesthetic! It’s just -

BASIRA
We have to get out of here now!

MELANIE
GET AWAY FROM ME -

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST IS FLIPPING THROUGH SOME PAPERS WHEN HE WINCES AND LETS OUT A SIGH OF PAIN.]
ARCHIVIST
(clearing throat) Statement of Debra Madaki regarding an adult art class she took in the spring of 2004, and her interactions with Gabriel, a fellow student. Original statement given 11th October, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So, there’s a community center about five minutes walk from my house. Used to be they only ever hired out the hall for… weddings, parties - occasional public events. But about five, six years ago they got a new organizer in - Jenny. Lovely woman. Young. Very keen on making the community center just that - the center of the community. So she put together this huge program of adult education classes.

Mostly just the standard stuff, uh dance, life drawing, yoga, computer skills, but there were a few that were a bit more out there. They had a cheese-making course that ended with us all bringing in our somewhat less-than-successful cheeses and pairing them with wines. Still amazing no one got food poisoning from that one. And there was a fire-eating workshop, once. I didn’t go to that one.

Anyway, I’d become great friends with Jenny through the church choir, and since George was off to university and Rosa was generally working evenings, I tended to be alone until about ten or eleven most days. So obviously, I started going to as many classes as I could. It was a great way to… meet friends, uh learn new skills, and, uh, as she always reminded me, spend a good portion of Rosa’s paycheck.

Now about a year after Jenny had taken over, the workshop schedule started listing a biweekly sculpting class. Which was great news, because I’d been telling Rosa just the day before that life drawing and watercolours were all very well, but I really like to get a bit more hands-on with making art. Then Rosa made an off-colour joke about life drawing and getting - hands-on, and I forgot about it, but I still ended up going to the class.

There were only a few of us, learning to sculpt, probably because the class had quite a high materials cost, and was a bit earlier than the others. There was me; Mary, who uh, works in the Post Office; Bill, who I knew from walking his dog; and Ray Quinton, who was actually teaching the class, though I didn’t know him outside of that.

And then there was - him. The man who introduced himself as “Gabriel,” was short and squat, with knobbly bare arms that seemed to reach down almost to his knees. (breath) He had dark hair he claimed he only kept short because he thought no one would notice how greasy it was, and his face jutted out - like it was - trying to escape his skull.

Now, I’m not one to judge on appearances; I was the one who insisted Desmond still come to church after his operation, so please don’t think it was his ugliness that set me against that - horrid little man. There was just something about the way he moved, as if he was always too close, right into your personal space, but then you’d look again, and h-he wasn’t. When he walked up to me without warning and introduced himself, I only just managed to stop myself obviously recoiling. It was just a feeling.

So our first lessons were very basic, all about how to properly move and shape the clay, how to use armatures, and the different tools, and how they interacted with the material. We weren’t really doing much in terms of actual sculpting, just listening and watching Ray do his demonstrations.

At least me, Bill, and Mary were watching him. Gabriel seemed quite content to ignore our teacher entirely, focusing instead on the lump of clay in front of him. His rough, sausage-like fingers twisted and warped it with ease.

I found it a difficult, heavy material to work with, never quite as wet as I needed it to be, no matter how much water I added, but looking over at Gabriel it was like it was alive in his hands, eagerly bending itself into whatever shape he wanted. And those shapes were… odd.

I remember one of our earlier projects was just to do a fish, just a rough shape of a fish, nice and simple. Ray had even pre-made some armatures for us. I mean, I still struggled, and Mary and Bill had a good ol’ go at it, but over in the corner Gabriel just began grabbing and molding and… twisting into a shape that was… well it certainly wasn’t a fish. It sort of - almost started out like a fish. But it just kept going and going, looping back and into itself, as if it was swimming through its own body. After a half hour, I had almost completely forgotten my own work, instead just staring at this serpentine structure that the dreadful man was building.

The most infuriating part was that whenever Ray would pass his table, he’d just nod, gently to himself, and trade a few words with Gabriel as if whatever it was he was trying to make was in any way similar to the practice we’d been assigned.

I know, it was an amateur class, and he was under no obligation to do exactly the work as instructed, but Ray was very clear with the rest of us that we were doing things in a specific order for a reason, and it was just a bit frustrating to see him nodding along to that awful man flagrantly disregarding what we were meant to be doing.

At one point, Gabriel must have noticed me staring. He looked back at me for the longest time, far longer than I was comfortable with, and then he picked up his nasty spiraling clay fish and walked over towards me. I could feel my hairs standing on end as he got closer, and he held it towards my face. He asked me if I could help him, because he was having a bit of a creative block, and I remember thinking - he had the palest eyes I’d ever seen. Then my gaze focused back on the thing in his hands, that dead, curling lump of clay, and I watched it move.

It coiled around, through its own face, and flailed its long, distorted fins in desperate pained movements. It made a noise that sounded like a scream heard through water and stretched out towards my mouth, which I’ll admit was hanging open in horror. If I hadn’t screamed and fallen backwards, I am sure the thing would have dived down my throat.

The others rushed over to me, making all the appropriate noises of surprise and concern, but I could only watch as Gabriel rushed back to his bench and started to furiously work on his sculpture again. He looked over at me, and I heard him speak quite clearly, though no one else reacted to it: “What an excellent idea,” he said. “An excellent direction indeed.”

I quit the class after that. I emailed Ray to explain that I would no longer be attending and left it at that. Obviously, I didn’t tell him exactly what I’d seen, but I thought some general references to inappropriate behaviour from one of the other students would get my point across. And then I continued with my life, and didn’t give Gabriel another thought.

At least, not until I went to my salsa class the following Thursday, and instead found myself walking into a room set up for sculpture. I was obviously taken aback at what had to be a really significant scheduling issue, but having a quick check of the timetable of classes, it looked very much like sculpting had always been on a Thursday, which didn’t make much sense to me, standing there in my dancing shoes and feeling like a fool.

Gabriel gave me a sheepish smile, and returned to - whatever it was he was working on. Ray seemed absolutely delighted to see me, and made such a big show of it that I didn’t really feel like I could just turn around and leave. I asked him if he’d got my email and he nodded emphatically as he ushered me over to my table, but didn’t elaborate.

Bill gave me a slightly pained smile, but when I asked if he was alright, he just shrugged, and told me he couldn’t complain.

There was no sign of Mary. They still haven’t found her.

So I started to work. Ray told us the lesson was ‘faces.’ I put my hand up to say that sculpting faces was probably a bit advanced for where we were in the course, but he shook his head, and said that we were… a lot more talented than we thought. He said the key was that faces were twisted. All faces were twisted on the inside, and all you had to do was reach into the deepest part of yourself and put that twisted on the outside of the clay, and as soon as you can scream you’ll have your own face staring back at you.

I asked him to clarify, and he nodded again. “Soon as you can scream,” he said, glancing over nervously to Gabriel, who gave him… big thumbs up. Like it was all some joke they were playing. It didn’t feel like a joke, let me tell you.

I did my best, prodding and shaping the clay, trying to do a face, a-and I think I actually made a pretty good stab at it, given how unhelpful our instructions had been. I mean it had two eyes, a mouth, something that might - charitably been called hair. I asked Ray for his expertise, but he was just standing at the front of the room, smiling and nodding.

The face Bill was working on looked like Mary, though he’d made her mouth much, much too wide. Be honest, it gave me quite a shock to see. Then I heard that - shuffling sound from the other side of the room, and I knew that Gabriel was walking towards me, no doubt holding some unpleasant new shape he’d formed just for me. He coughed gently, and, well, I suppose it would have been rude not to look.

The structure he held in his hands made my eyes hurt. Thin, sharp lines angling off from each other in an incredibly intricate arrangement, although they never seemed to actually connect with each other. It shifted, just like the other one, and I felt something jabbing at my skull like a migraine. Finally the lines seemed to resolve into a clear shape: A door. “Perfect!” Gabriel told me. “It looks just like him!”

I asked him if it was supposed to be a face and he told me yes. It was a good friend of his. I asked him who and he said they didn’t have a name. I told him everyone has a name, and he said his friend wasn’t like us, that having a name would only confuse them. My head was pounding. I looked over at Ray, still nodding and smiling. And then over at Bill, who was steadily shoveling fistfuls of the clay Mary into his mouth. I don’t remember anything more of that lesson.

The last lesson was on Monday. It wasn’t watercolours, and never had been, according to the schedule I had been obsessively checking so much that Rosa had started to get worried. The room was larger than I’d remembered, although it didn’t need to be, because there weren’t any tables. (at increasing speed) Ray was there at the front, but he was singing something in a high tenor that I couldn’t make out. I tried to ask him what we were doing for the lesson, but he just sang, louder. Bill was there, but he was made of clay his limbs being worked and twisted by Gabriel into strange, spiraling shapes, and occasionally joined into new and impossible positions.

As soon as Gabriel spotted me he hopped up and hurried over to me. He grabbed my had in a firm, damp grip, and started to thank me. I was the best assistant he could have asked for, he said. He’d improved so much because of me. As he said this, the structure beneath his face shifted, pushing it further and further from where his skull should have been. And behind his teeth at the edges of his eyes, I saw the dull red of shifting clay. His smile kept getting wider and bending in on itself at the edges, and where his fingers touched the back of my trembling hand, I could feel his spiraling fingerprints start to turn. Round and around.

The marks won’t come off, no matter how hard I scrub.

That was when I ran. I suppose I could have run before then, but I wouldn’t have wanted to seem rude, and it’s not like any of it could have been real, could it. It was just me losing it a bit. It has to have been, I mean I’ve seen Ray and Bill around since.

Certainly they don’t like to make eye contact, and Bill cries a lot in church, but - they’re still here. They’re fine. So it didn’t happen. There’s no reason for me to stay away from the community center. There’s no reason for me to sit inside all evening, trying not to look to closely at any of the doors.

I got a letter, a week ago. It was from Gabriel. It said that he had found a new job, and he’d love it if I came up to assist him again. He’s working in a place called Sannikov Land. I looked it up. It doesn’t exist. And it sounds cold. I don’t think I should go. I’m not going to go.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sigh) ‘The-Worker-In-Clay.’ That’s what Michael called him in his statement. A Great Twisting, that Gertrude stopped at the cost of a single life. (hm) I thought moving away from my humanity would have made that seem more acceptable. That sort of sacrifice… But it just makes me sad. I remembered Gertrude’s notebook. We found it alongside the plastic explosives, but it rather got lost amongst the business of… (sigh) saving the world at the cost of two lives.

It - it’s borderline incomprehensible. Not because of any code, or cipher; there’s every chance I could read those. Just simply because most of it is numbers or fragments of sentences that would no doubt mean something to her, but, well, not to me.

I’ve been staring at it for hours, in the hopes something from it would just - come to me. And it worked well enough to point me towards this statement, which is… useful background, and perhaps gives some insight into how Gertrude formulated her counter-rituals, but - not much more.

I’ve been trying to check on Melanie’s condition. She refuses to see me - understandably, I,I suppose, and Basira has been looking after her. (sigh) It hurts, of course. But… (sigh) I really hope getting that bullet out of her helps. At least stops it from getting any worse. I can’t have been too late again.

[SILENCE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(dry hm) There was a tape recorder waiting for me when I sat down. They’re not even hiding it anymore. There weren’t any tapes from when I was - away. I checked. (long breath) Whatever they are, they are here for me. I suppose I should be worried, but I have so much to keep watch over. So I’ve decided to let the tapes run. They’ve - proved useful before, so… (pause)

I did do a small bit of follow-up on Debra Madaki. Just for my own curiosity. She didn’t go to Sannikov Land in the end. I don’t know, however, whether that was because she decided not to… or because shortly after this statement was given, they found the body of one Mary Randall in her basement, and she has spent the last nine years in Eastwood Park prison, where she remains to this day.

I can’t find any - evidence related to the condition of the body. But I can imagine what a sculptor’s apprentice might be capable of. Even an unwilling one.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. ?????]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[SOME QUIET BREATHS AND SIGHING OVER A PRETTY STEADY STREAM OF TYPING.]
MARTIN
(clicking something) Oh. Hello. Haven’t seen you in a while.

[HE CONTINUES WITH HIS WORK FOR A BIT, BEFORE STOPPING AGAIN:]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Really? I mean, it’s just admin. I-it’s not exactly thrilling listening.

[WE HEAR A CLOCK TICKING STEADILY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(back to work; more clicking) Alright, fine. Whatever; you do you. Spool away, I guess. (little laugh) Let me know if you need some more batteries or something.

(short sigh, more typing) It’s because he’s back, isn’t it. (click) He’s back, so now you’re going to be - around, again. Listening in. (click, double-click) (amused *hm*) You missed him, didn’t you? (same little laugh) Yeah. Yeah, me too.

[AT THESE LAST WORDS, WE HEAR THE TRADEMARK STATIC OF PETER LUKAS APPEAR AND STEADILY INCREASE IN VOLUME.]
PETER
Which isn’t a great sign, if I’m being completely honest.

[AT THE SOUND OF HIS VOICE, MARTIN STARTLES, THEN SIGHS ONCE HE’S REALIZED WHO IT IS.]
PETER (CONT’D)
You talked to him?

MARTIN
I - I tried not to; I-I-I didn’t mean to -

PETER
(I’m not mad I’m just disappointed) You talked to him. And that’s understandable, Martin, of course it is; please don’t think I’m upset; it’s just - not ideal. Shows how much work we still have ahead of us.

MARTIN
If I keep avoiding him, people will get suspicious.

PETER
(laughing) They’re already suspicious, Martin. And that’s not the problem. I had - hoped that all this time apart would have given you the space you needed, but…

MARTIN
You said he’d probably never wake up.

PETER
And he beat the odds. Which is good! But it does make things more complicated. It doesn’t actually change, anything.

MARTIN
(indignant) A-a simple ‘hello’ isn’t going to make any difference to -

PETER
We’ve been over this. The sort of power you’re going to need relies on your -

MARTIN
(bitter) Obedience.

PETER
Isolation. It needs to be you, Martin. You’re the only one who could possibly balance between the two.

MARTIN
But if I could just explain -

PETER
And how do you think Jon’s going to react to that explanation, hm? You think he’ll accept it calmly? Come through with a well-considered, rational response?

MARTIN
That’s not fair.

PETER
Or would he assume he knows better than you and do something rash?

[THE CLOCKS TICKS ON IN THE BACKGROUND OF THE ENSUING PAUSE.]
MARTIN
I don’t like being manipulated.

PETER
That’s fair. But I’m not wrong.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
No.

PETER
Martin. This isn’t how any of us wanted it to go. But here we are, and if we don’t pull this off, it’s over for everyone. Jon included.

MARTIN
Yeah - you’ve said. (sigh)

MARTIN (CONT’D)
But if things are really so urgent, then why didn’t Elias say anything.

[PETER CHUCKLES, BUT IT’S GOT AN EDGE TO IT.]
PETER
Because behind all his bluster, Elias is just like all the rest. He’s so preoccupied playing the game, he doesn’t pay attention to the big picture. He managed to convince himself that he could get his ritual off first, which would have made all of this a bit - moot, but that’s not really an option anymore. So it’s down to us. You and me, the dynamic duo!

MARTIN
And so, what, that means I have to trust you?

PETER
It would make things a lot simpler.

MARTIN
Yeah, well, things would also be a lot simpler if you weren’t so cryptic about everything!

PETER
Well, if your Archives were a bit better-organized, it wouldn’t have taken me almost three months to find the evidence you needed.

MARTIN
What?

PETER
I’m just saying that we’d all be better off if your Archivist actually knew how to archive.

MARTIN
(enough) Peter.

[PAUSE.]
PETER
…Yes. Well. (pause)

PETER (CONT’D)
Unless I’m mistaken, I believe I’ve unearthed a few of Dekker’s old statements. Of course, I still need to do a bit of verification, but I’m confident they should provide you with all the context you need.

MARTIN
Good.

PETER
Great!

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
When all this is over, I’m telling him everything, with or without your permission.

PETER
Martin, when it’s over, you won’t want to.

[MARTIN LETS OUT A CONTEMPLATIVE NOISE.]
PETER (CONT’D)
But he will be safe. They all will.

MARTIN
Yeah.

[SILENCE.]
PETER
Anyway, I’m very excited to see this rota you’ve put together.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh - oh, okay.

PETER
Never had much of a gift for administration myself - too many variables. Now, this box on the left, that’s the library stuff, yes?

MARTIN
Wh - n,no! That’s the - Those are the dates! I - (clicking) Look, are you sure you don’t want me to teach you; i-it’s a very simple program -

PETER
No, no. Can’t stand computers. Besides, that’s why I have an assistant, isn’t it?

MARTIN
(sighing) Yeah. I guess so.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Dr. Jonathan Fanshawe regarding the months leading up to the death and autopsy of Albrecht von Closen. Original statement given as part of a letter to Jonah Magnus, November 21st, 1831. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Jonah. I must first and foremost decline your generous offer of a medical position servicing Millbank Penitentiary. While the terms you have laid out are, no doubt, more than adequate, I have for these last months come to the unfortunate conclusion that our intimacy and friendship must cease immediately. I do not know what interest you have in the poor condemned souls within those walls, nor do I care to guess. In the light of what I have so recently witnessed, I can no longer in good conscience associate with any of your endeavors. Nor will I continue to collect or provide those accounts of the esoteric and otherworldly that you and your… Institute so eagerly require. Consider this the severing of our acquaintance.

This cannot come as a shock to you. Surely you must have understood what you were asking when you implored me to visit with Albrecht, and apply my meager skills to the illness that beset him. You must have known the nature of that illness, even if only in the most general terms, and no doubt you had some intuition as to its cause.

But, should all this be a true surprise to you, then I shall do my best to explain, and hope that any revelations contained here in me sway you from the path you have started upon.

I arrived at Albrecht’s estate early in April. The trees were dense with renewed greenery, and the rain drummed heavily on the carriages as we approached. I remember it so clearly. The smell of the rain cut through with an unexpected whiff of smoke, and as we got closer I saw the orange glow of flame through the trees.

My first thought was that the house had caught fire, and I would arrive only to a scorched ruin and blackened bone, but as we got closer I could see that it was a single tree that was burning. A gnarled and ancient elm, that sat removed from the rest of the forest. A small crowd surrounded the spectacle. One man, who I took to be a groundskeeper, stood closer than the others, with a lit torch in his hand.

On my instruction, the driver pulled closer, though the horses were nervous, and I asked the man why they were burning the tree, when the rain was coming down so heavily. Surely it could have waited for drier weather. The man simply shrugged. My German is… fine, though I have had little cause to use it of late, but his accent was thick, and all that I could get from him was a sense of… resignation, and the insistence that his master, who I took to be Albrecht, wanted the tree dead. I’m sure that he used that word, though. Not burned, not removed, or destroyed. Dead. I resolved to ask Albrecht about it when I saw him.

As it transpired, that was sometime later than I had anticipated. As I’m sure you’re aware, Albrecht’s wife Carla was taken by a fever some years ago, and his sons were away at school, so it was the housekeeper who greeted me when I arrived. Greta, her name was, a pleasant, red-faced young woman with a smattering of English that she insisted on using at every opportunity.

Once I had dressed in dry clothes, she brought some food and a drop of brandy, all the while making apologies that the master of the house was indisposed. I did tell her that I was a doctor, and specifically visiting in order to help end any indisposition. But she just shook her head and told me he’d see me when he was ready.

The house seemed.. so empty. The rain battered on the window, and the clocks ticked away in every room, but there seemed no sound of life to be found anywhere. As I sat in the drawing room, I realized Greta had left the door behind me open to the corridor beyond. I tried to ignore it, simply drink my brandy and continue waiting.

But I could not ignore the sensation that someone was out there, watching behind me. The corridor was dark, and I thought for a second I could make out a shape, crouched there. But there was nothing, so I closed the door. Eventually evening came, and Greta informed me that dinner was served. I ate alone, sat in a long dining hall that seemed to have far too many windows. Turning behind me, I saw Greta watching me from the doorway. Her face held nothing of malice in it that I could discern, but still I was uneasy. I called, trying to dismiss her, but she didn’t seem to hear me.

I retired back to the drawing room to smoke my pipe, but even that simple, reassuring action brought me no comfort, and I made my way to the room I had been given without ever once having seen my elusive host. I noted that the window looking over my bed had neither blind nor shutter, and I was all at once very aware of my candle, and the sickly illumination it spread over everything, the point of light reflected back in the glass like the glint of an eye.

I did not sleep well that night. The feeling of being under-observation did not lessen, and I remained unsure of the exact nature of this errand, an errand, I remind you, Jonah, I undertook at your insistence. Eventually a fitful sleep found me, and I had some measure of peace.

It was still dark when I awoke, and that feeling had intensified to a terrifying measure. I was now certain that something was in the room with me, staring at me. I reached over and took a match, striking it against the bedpost. And there, looming over me, was a face, pale and shaking. The eyes sunken, and the cheeks were dirty and unshaved.

It was the face of Albrecht von Closen.

In the light, his eyes met mine, and his mouth began to work furiously, repeating the same phrase over and over, increasing in volume until he was screaming it into my face: (breath)

“Leg sie ala zurück. Leg sie ala zurück.”

Put them back. Put them back.

I felt a sharp pain in my fingers as the match burned down, and I dropped it with a cry. The room disappeared into darkness once again, and when my scrabbling hands had gotten another lit, he was gone. And I was alone. I did not sleep any further that night.

When the sun finally crept through my uncovered window, I dressed quickly. Greta’s pleas that I come down for breakfast were roundly ignored, and I started throwing open any door I had not yet seen behind, looking for my host.

I found him in the library, where a fire already blazed in a feeble attempt to keep the morning chill at bay. He stood in front of it, eyes lost in the flame, looking every bit as feeble and warm as he had when he crouched over my bed the night before. I shut the door behind me before Greta could object, and demanded to know why he had come into my room.

He… apologized, in such a pitiful tone that the anger seemed to abandon me all at once. He seemed so small. He gestured for me to take a seat, and I did. As he walked the shelves, stroking the spines of each book in turn, I started to ask him about his health, and explained why I was there, but he showed not the slightest sign that he was listening.

“I had them rebound last year,” he said. “Damp can do terrible things to a book.” I told him I was certain that that was the case, but I must insist we talk about his health. Again he ignored me. Instead, he took the seat opposite me and started to tell me a story. And then another. And another. A stream of strange tales began to pour out of him, and I just sat there, transfixed, desperately wishing I had the strength of will to leave, but all I could do was listen.

He told me of a seamstress, who laced her body with fine black thread, and when she pulled it all out in a single swift motion, her skin dropped away like a loose shift. He told me of a man so scared to die he spent a year weaving a rope blindfolded, so he would not know the length, and could not foresee the moment it would tighten around his neck when he finally threw himself into the void. He told me of a fire that burns so hot and fierce that to even know about it is enough to burn a man’s tongue from his head. He told me so many terrible things.

And at the end of it all, the only thing I could think to ask him was where he read them. My eyes darted to the books that surrounded us, but Albrecht laughed at this, and placed his hands across a spine that was simply labeled ‘A Warning.’ For a moment, he looked as though he were about to wrench it from its place and hurl it into the fire. But it passed. He turned back to me. “You do not understand,” he said to me in German. “I do not read the books. They read me.”

I did not ask him to clarify further. I got the key to my room from Greta and made sure this time, the door was locked as I slept.

As my stay progressed, I learned more of his condition. I would have initially described it as a… natural mania, that had found a totemic focus on the books of his library. But when he finally told me the story of how he discovered them… and the awful tomb from which they were retrieved, I began to suspect that perhaps the books had brought some contaminant into Albrecht’s home, which had gradually corroded his mind. I had neither the time nor equipment to conduct the sort of tests that might have confirmed such things, but I became convinced that removing the books would go some way to addressing his health concerns.

I expected some stiff resistance on the subject, but Albrecht’s response seemed closer to relief than any sort of distress. He simply asked if I would help, and, to my eternal regret, I agreed.

What shall I tell you, Jonah, about this… fool’s errand? That damnable journey we embarked upon? Shall I regale you with the awful experiences of transporting a library’s worth of books through the Black Forest? Perhaps I should write you an account of finding that ancient cemetery, of descending into that bleak and frozen mausoleum. Or would you prefer to hear about the hours we spent placing volume after volume on empty grey shelves, ignoring how out of place the new bindings appeared against the antique stonework?

No. I’m sure all you want to know was how Albrecht died. Why it was that, as I replaced the last book taken from that place, I heard his - scream from the top of the stairs and ran up to find him sprawled and dead before the stone coffin. But I cannot answer that. I do not know how he died. I saw nothing and no one with him, and his body seemed whole and undamaged. But I do have some idea as to why it happened.

For as I filled those dead shelves with freshly bound volumes, I could not help but notice that every page was blank. I have since checked with [Paines], who I believe to be your preferred book-binders. And I know that the books poor Albrecht was returning to the grave were not the books that were taken. I hope they bring you much wisdom, Jonah, for the cost was dear enough.

Nothing stood in the way of my retreat, and I dragged Albrecht’s body back as far as the coach. We left that awful place, and I have endeavored most acutely to forget the route.

Before he was buried, I was able to secure permission to do an autopsy. I had some thought as to discovering the cause of his sudden, violent passing. Do I need to tell you what I found, Jonah? Do I need to detail what covered his organs, his bones, the inside of his skin? What clustered together in their dozens, and all turned as one to focus on me as I opened his chest, their pupils constricting in the light, with irises of every hue and color? Because whatever it was that did this to him, I know in my heart that it is your fault.

I have had the body burned. Please do not write to me again.

Your obedient servant,

Doctor Jonathan Fanshawe.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sigh) Disconcerting to find my namesake in a statement, especially one connected so directly to the Institute. I can only hope breaking faith with Jonah Magnus didn’t go too badly for him.

Hm. Jonah Magnus. I’ve never really given much thought to him, not nearly as much as I should have. I suppose I had always hoped there was a chance he was… innocent in all this. I know, I know. But I had- (sigh) I just- hoped that maybe the founding of the Institute was in earnest, and not simply the foundation-stone for all the terrible things that have happened here. But no. Whatever is happening now has its origins two hundred years ago, in the work of an evil man. (shaky breath)

Exactly two hundred years in fact. Don’t think that little detail has evaded me. I don’t know the precise date the Institute was founded, but I do know that it was in 1818. (shaky breath) Something’s coming. I know it is. (pause) But I just- don’t know what I need to do.

(sound of recognition) (calling)

Come in, Basira.

[THE DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES AS BASIRA COMES IN.]
BASIRA
I was waiting for you to finish.

ARCHIVIST
I know.

BASIRA
I don’t like that you’ve started doing that.

ARCHIVIST
I- I know. (pause, sigh) How’s Melanie?

BASIRA
How do you think?

ARCHIVIST
Ah- I-I, uh, I should probably talk to-

BASIRA
(overlapping) You should probably stay as far away as possible. She doesn’t want to see you.

ARCHIVIST
No. No, o-o-o-of course.

BASIRA
But, she did want me to… apologize.

ARCHIVIST
(soft, surprised) Oh.

BASIRA
From her, for… the shoulder.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. It,It’s fine. Scalpel wounds - (nonchalant laugh) - they heal quickly.

BASIRA
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
(dry breath of a laugh) Too quickly, really.

[HE GIVES ANOTHER OF THOSE SAME LAUGHS.]
BASIRA
Already?

ARCHIVIST
(long sigh) Just another scar for the collection.

BASIRA
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
D-Do you think it worked; is she?…

BASIRA
I don’t know. She seems more… coherent, I guess? And you did get an apology.

ARCHIVIST
(quiet) Yeah.

BASIRA
She says she can cry now, which is, um,

ARCHIVIST
(even quieter) Oh.

BASIRA
Progress? I think?

ARCHIVIST
Uh -

BASIRA
She’s still angry, but she hasn’t attacked anyone. Not even sure she has it in her anymore.

ARCHIVIST
Well that’s- that’s good.

BASIRA
(ehhhh) Mm.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
So. You can’t be killed by a collapsing building. Major injuries scar fast. You can force the truth out of people, and knowledge pops into your head whenever you need it.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. I, I think that, that about covers it.

BASIRA
…And what was that you were doing yesterday?

ARCHIVIST
…When?

BASIRA
You were sat on the floor for like four hours.

ARCHIVIST
…Oh! Uh, no, I,I,I was- I was-listening, you know, trying to see if the statements (inhale) …called to me.

BASIRA
And?

[WE HEAR THE FLIP OF PAGES AS THE ARCHIVIST INDICATES THE FANSHAWE STATEMENT.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Brilliant.

[THE ARCHIVIST PUTS THE STATEMENT DOWN; WE NOTE AT THIS POINT THAT THERE IS SOME STATIC THAT HAS JUST COME IN.]
ARCHIVIST
Look, I don’t know, Basira. I hope I’m still human, but it- (sigh) But it’s seeming more and more unlikely.

BASIRA
I didn’t ask.

ARCHIVIST
No, I suppose you didn’t.

BASIRA
Don’t snoop in my head.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not snooping; I’m not looking; that’s not how this works!

BASIRA
Explain it, then.

ARCHIVIST
I,I’m not sure I can!

BASIRA
Humor me.

[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A LONG SIGH.]
ARCHIVIST
It’s - hard. It’s like there’s a,a door, in my mind. A-a-and behind it is, is the entire ocean.

ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Before, I didn’t notice it, but now, I- I know it’s there, and I can’t forget it, and I can feel the pressure of the water on it. I- I- [unintelligible noise]- I can keep it closed? (sigh) But sometimes, when I’m around p-people, or.. places, or.. ideas? A drop or two will push through the cracks at the edges of the door. And I’ll… know something.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
What happens if you open the door?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
I drown.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I’m sorry, Basira, I,I will try to keep anything I’ve learned about you to myself. And my priorities haven’t changed. I hope you can believe that. (shaky breath and sigh) I’m still on your side. You can trust me.

BASIRA
(tired exhale) Yeah. People keep saying that.

ARCHIVIST
Do they? Who - who - who else - did Martin say something?

BASIRA
(brief pause) It was a few months back, after the attack. He’d started spending time with Lukas.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
At least, he said he was. And I wanted answers.

BASIRA (CONT’D)
He kept telling me to trust him, to hear the guy out, even though he still wouldn’t actually show his face. I told him he could drop me an email or vanish me.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
Honestly, I kind of regret not just- grabbing Martin and shaking an explanation out of him. But I didn’t want to push it. He was in a- bad place, what with the attack and his mum and everything. Now I try and bring it up and he just-disappears. Nothing to be done.

ARCHIVIST
S-sorry, you said- what happened with his mother?

BASIRA
Oh, yeah. She died. About two months after you, uh…

ARCHIVIST
(in the background, quiet) Oh.

BASIRA
(pause) Martin was… He tried to stay strong, keep it together, but - that sort of thing… (sigh) Then those Flesh things burst in, and well - here we are.

ARCHIVIST
God.

BASIRA
He didn’t tell you?

ARCHIVIST
(surprised) No.

BASIRA
Hm. Guess you don’t know everything then.

ARCHIVIST
N-no, I,I guess not. (shaky breath and sigh) So what do we do now?

BASIRA
You tell me. Just don’t expect much on trust these days.

ARCHIVIST
(hm) Yes, I, I suppose that’s fair.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. PRISON, VISITING ROOM]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A DOOR OR TWO BEING UNLOCKED, AND THEN LOCKED AGAIN. THERE’S A BIT OF ECHOING BACKGROUND CHATTER.]
ELIAS
Good evening, Detective.

[BASIRA WALKS UP TO HIM.]
BASIRA
I’m not a detective.

ELIAS
Of course.

BASIRA
You wanted to see me?

ELIAS
Yes.

BASIRA
Something too important to tell the Inspector?

ELIAS
Maybe I - just wanted to have a chat.

BASIRA
Well, good luck with that.

[SHE STARTS WALKING BACK, BEGINS TO UNLOCK WHAT SOUNDS LIKE A GRATED DOOR.]
ELIAS
I - found one of these in my cell.

[BASIRA PAUSES.]
ELIAS (CONT’D)
(continuous) It wasn’t recording, but I assume this means he’s awake.

[ELIAS’S HANDCUFFS CLINK.]
ELIAS (CONT’D)
Basira?

[CLINK AGAIN.]
BASIRA
Can we cut the bullshit?

ELIAS
What “bullshit” might that be?

BASIRA
The part where you pretend you don’t spend your whole time watching us.

[SOMEONE YELLS SOMETHING IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ELIAS
Sometimes I’m eating.

BASIRA
You know he’s back. You’ve seen him.

ELIAS
Fine. Yes.

[ANOTHER CLINK.]
[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
So what’s with the recorder? Who gave it to you?

ELIAS
(handcuffs clink again, nonchalant) Oh, no. That - that really did just appear in my cell.

BASIRA
Right, so, what, you figured you could just record us for him? Serve some distrust from afar?

ELIAS
Our arrangement with the inspector notwithstanding, I rather feel that right now all the distrust is very much your own. And, as to whether he’ll ever hear this, maybe he’ll get the tapes, maybe he won’t, but the recordings have helped so far, so…

BASIRA
Do you know what they are?

ELIAS
What a question.

[BASIRA SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Fine. So you won’t see him, but you’re happy for him to hear our conversations.

ELIAS
He can listen all he wants, but he’s at a very delicate stage right now, and I fear my presence would be a, um, a distraction.

[CLINK.]
ELIAS (CONT’D)
I made it clear my cooperation is contingent on his not seeing me, and my terms have been accepted thus far.

BASIRA
So why am I here? What do you want that’s so important you needed to tell me to my face?

ELIAS
I believe you recently lost Melanie.

BASIRA
We saved Melanie.

ELIAS
As a person, yes, but as a defender… (he tsk-sighs) I would have thought you would want all the help you could get, or have you forgotten what happened the last time you let your guard down?

BASIRA
We’ll work it out.

ELIAS
(heh) Possibly. Then again, you are beset by enemies on all sides, Basira. And, unless you expect Jon to record them into submission, it would seem you are in rather dire need of another option.

BASIRA
And you just happen to have one.

ELIAS
I might have an idea, (clink) yes.

BASIRA
And what does it cost?

ELIAS
Just some of your time, Basira. Just your time.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
(letting out a long sigh) Okay. Let’s hear it.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[SOME PAPERS RUSTLE.]
BREEKON
(low, dark) Don’t say a word.

[MORE RUSTLING. THE DOOR OPENS, AND THE ARCHIVIST COMES IN.]
BASIRA
Jon. Don’t turn on the light. Go get Melanie, quickly.

ARCHIVIST
It’s alright, Basira, I know he’s here.

BASIRA
So what are you doing?

ARCHIVIST
I imagine he’s here to deliver something. Thought it might need signing for.

BREEKON
That’s right. Just wanted to - to drop off a package.

BASIRA
Right, look, what the hell is this? Did you bring him here?

ARCHIVIST
No.

BASIRA
Is he here for revenge?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - I don’t know. Ask him.

BASIRA
Like he’s going to answer me.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. (inhale)

(to Breekon) Are you here for revenge?

[AS HE ASKS THE QUESTION, A STATIC BUILDS IN THE BACKGROUND; THIS IS COMPULSION IN EFFECT.]
BREEKON
(heh) Yeah. Just like when we.. when I fed the copper to the pit.

[BASIRA BRISTLES WITH A INCENSED BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
Easy, Basira.

[THE STATIC GETS STRONGER. A LOW RUMBLING BEGINS TO ACCOMPANY IT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
What pit.

BREEKON
In here.

[HE KNOCKS TWICE AGAINST BREEKON AND HOPE’S TRADEMARK COFFIN.]
BREEKON (CONT’D)
Realized I’m not tied- to it anymore. Not on my own. Thought you could have it. Pay your respects like -

BASIRA
Daisy’s in there.

BREEKON
That’s its name? Then sure, ‘t’s in there, whatever’s left. Find out if you like.

ARCHIVIST
Would you please drop that ridiculous voice?

BREEKON
(terrible Russian accent) Apologies. Is preferred like so?

ARCHIVIST
Christ, that’s worse.

[BREEKON LAUGHS, STILL IN THE “ACCENT.”]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(with compulsion) What is your real voice?

[BREEKON LAUGHS AGAIN, BACK TO THE ORIGINAL VOICE, THOUGH NOT AS DARKLY INTONED.]
BREEKON
Nikola said you were funny. Didn’t believe it.

BASIRA
What do you want. Why are you here?

[SILENCE. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
(with compulsion) Why are you here?

BREEKON
Dunno.

(pause) ‘S not right, on my own. Not right. No point in doing it on my own. Don’t know what happens now. (pause) Thought I might kill you. Missed my chance. Thought I might just deliver something. So here’s a coffin.

[HE SLIDES THE COFFIN CLOSER.]
In case you want- to join your friend.

[BASIRA TAKES A BREATH.]
BASIRA
Get out.

ARCHIVIST
Basira.

[STATIC IS BUILDING IN THE BACKGROUND; THERE’S A STRANGE RUSTLING SORT OF SOUND.]
BASIRA
Get. Out.

BREEKON
Make me.

[AND ALL AT ONCE THERE’S A STRANGE SOUND, MUSICAL YET HOLLOW, AND IT SEEMS TO BE BUILDING TO -]
ARCHIVIST
Stop.

[THERE’S A NEW STATIC LAYERED ON TOP, NOW, HIGH-PITCHED - LIKE FEEDBACK FROM MICROPHONES TOO CLOSE TO EACH OTHER, BUT ANGELIC, SOMEHOW.]
BREEKON
What’re you doing?

[NO ANSWER. THE STRANGE NEW STATIC COMBINATION CONTINUES; WHATEVER’S HAPPENING, WE HAVE NO CLUES AS TO ITS NATURE.]
BASIRA
Jon, what are you doing?

BREEKON
What are you - stop it.

[THE STATIC BECOMES MORE INTENSE.]
BREEKON (CONT’D)
Stop it!

[WHEN THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS, IT HAS AN ECHO TO IT, REMINISCENT OF THE HOLLOWNESS FROM EARLIER:]
ARCHIVIST
No.

[HE SAYS NOTHING FURTHER, BUT BREEKON BEGINS TO MAKE AN UNCOMFORTABLE, ALMOST CHOKING SOUND.]
BREEKON
E-Enough - stop - looking at me-

[THE STATIC - FROM RUMBLING TO REGULAR STATIC TO FEEDBACK-GROWS EVEN STRONGER. BREEKON MAKES MORE GURGLING/CHOKING SOUNDS, AND THEN BEGINS TO YELL, BUT ALMOST IMMEDIATELY AFTER HE BEGINS, HIS VOICE BEGINS TO FADE. HIS SCREAM IS STILL CLEARLY AT HIGH INTENSITY; IT’S MORE AS IF SOMEONE TOOK THE KNOB CONTROLLING HIS VOLUME AND TURNED IT DOWN MID-YELL.]
[SOMETHING MAKES A KNOCKING OR BANGING SORT OF SOUND AS THIS HAPPENS; IT’S POSSIBLE THAT BREEKON HAS BEEN PUSHED OUT THE DOOR.]
[THE STATIC CONTINUES, AND THEN THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A SOFT GASP AND BEGINS BREATHING HARD, AS IF NEEDING AIR.]
[HE TAKES ONE FINAL, STEADYING BREATH, AFTER WHICH THE STATIC BEGINS TO FADE.]
BASIRA
Jon?

ARCHIVIST
(quickly) It’s fine. (more himself) Get me a pen. Please.

[HE TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
TAPE CLICKS OFF.
INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE
TAPE CLICKS ON.
[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP, STEADYING BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
(clearing his throat) Mm - Statement of the surviving half of the being calling itself ‘Breekon and Hope’ regarding its.. existence. Statement… extracted from subject, 3rd March, 2018. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
We started in a plague. Not like the nasty crawlers, but like bringing any other doom. We had a cart of corpses, faces twisted, screaming, leaking pus. Knock on doors and cry roughly to bring their dead to us. I tended the shrunken, mangy mule, and he took the remains on shoulder, slinging them onto the stinking pile.

I remember it clear. The fear on their faces as we rolled towards their hovels. Mud-caked peasant or bloated lord, every one of them saw us coming and trembled. It wasn’t the plague they feared; it wasn’t the death that waited in our wagon. It was us. Two strangers rolling towards them, unstoppable and uncertain, wearing faces they would only half-remember, bringing a fate they would beg their god to forget. They could not hate us, anymore than they could hate the rock that falls on them from a crumbling cliff. They did not know us, but they knew what we might do to them. What we might bring them.

And we did. Villages that might have no bodies for us when we arrived would pile high our cart before we left. We did not kill them, did not lift a finger. We were the bringers of their awful fate, not its executors. They knew this and feared us in kind. And we drank it down, the taste of it sweeter than the food that now rotted on our plates or the drink that curdled in our cups. And we both tasted it together.

When we left our destination, the mule whining at the new weight behind it, he would reach behind us and find a face, sagging, sloughing off its skull, and pull it to him. He’d place it over the one he wore already and he would laugh and laugh and laugh. Sometimes it fell off. Sometimes it stayed for weeks. I kept the face we chose, but I loved him for our levity. And the corpses piled ever higher.

We served aboard the Robert Small, bodies of the time crammed into uniform as sloppily as anyone would expect. Enlistment wasn’t needed, nor was drafting. We were on the list for any crew that deserved us. And we were fitting deckhands for the Robert Small, as it made its slow and mournful passage to Australia. The quartermaster was too precise, though, and in counting out the rations saw us for what we were. I ate the quartermaster’s pen. He ate the quartermaster’s tongue. And that was that.

The journey was magnificent. No waiting, no searching for a delivery. Every moment moved us towards, towards the completion of the task and the culmination of our charge’s terror. Poor wretches who emerged from Millbank, with tales of Australia and its cruelties on their lips, bundled into the cramped and creaking ship that would drag them away from everything they loved. And towards everything they feared.

That was the first time we saw what would become this place: The Eye’s Pedestal. But we were drunk on the dawning horror of transportation and took no heed of it.

A young man named Jack tried to leap overboard. When he caught the lad, there was such begging and pleading as you’ve never heard, just to let them drown, allow the sea to take its due. But he just laughed and laughed, and Jack died on land as he had always been meant to.

We were conductors on a train, prim suits and scowls, a relentless beast of iron and steam that never seemed to get you exactly where you wanted to be unless there was something dreadful waiting for you. We punched tickets, ignored questions, and threw off those who looked like they were having too fine a time of it. We didn’t like this job, too many sat aboard dreaming sweetly of progress and the future, too few alive to the truth of dirt and struggle in front of them. We woke those we could, but too many stepped off with a smile.

We had some luggage, once, a thrumming silk-wrapped thing of the spider, hiding away in an old steamer trunk. We stepped heavy through the dining car and found an old woman near the caboose. “Something strange in the luggage car,” he said, and I finished as was our way - “You should come and see it.” She stood and walked with us readily enough, though tears flowed silent down her cheeks and pattered onto the fading carpet.

The Spider’s always an easy job, no fuss, no complications, everything planned and prepared. It knows too much to truly be a stranger, but hides its knowing well enough to endure. We knew she wouldn’t scream as she was hollowed out and drunk, but still he thought best to cover the sounds with a laugh. He was always our humor. (pause) I remember our first automobile, black and reliable, just about presentable for the London auction-houses we served. He squeezed its first owner until they stopped, and dumped them in a river, and I stayed with the second until they didn’t know who they were, anymore than they knew what they were.

And then we had a car. It was noisy, and it juddered, but the name on the wooden siding was respectable, and now it was ours and good enough for Sotheby’s. We moved a lot of things in those years. Some of them even harmless. My favorite was the old knife, rusted from the trenches and lied about by a barking auctioneer. We delivered it to a leering banker who knew the second they saw us what they’d done.

Sweat dripped from under their bowler hat as they took the knife from its dented metal case and screamed. They lunged at me, stabbing me over and through, then moved on to him, but he just laughed as the blade went in and out and no blood flowed from the holes they cut. And when the banker had screamed all the curses they had learned from German gas attacks, the knife turned back again and cut them, piece by piece. We delivered it back to Christie’s, and that was the end of the auction jobs.

Then were the good times, the circus times. We always take what jobs are before us, deliver whatever will bring that fear and misery, but there is no joy in carrying meat, in shifting writhing spiral things. But with the circus, we were among our own kind at last. They all had names, true enough, but none would dare pretend that names were real. Faces changed more often than clothes, and nobody truly knew who anybody was, save for their function within the show. We carried and lifted and helped the circus move towards its next destination, the next doomed town. Sometimes we joined the show, lifting weights and things that looks like animals. Sometimes we lifted members of the audience. Sometimes we even put them down again.

Even in our stillness, people were afraid. The winter in Russia was cold, and in the icy air, the absence of our breath was clear for all to see. I could taste their discomfort. But none ever mentioned it. We didn’t like the puppet, when Orsinov began to carve it. It seemed wrong to us to try and bring one like us about, to create or remake it in such a solid, static shape.

We were wrong, of course, and when Orsinov carved into the thing that had once called itself Grimaldi, and fed the pieces they didn’t need to the shuddering organist, even we found ourselves impressed. And when the faceless puppet peeled its creator and moved itself with their tendon strings, he looked at me and laughed and laughed.

We followed her a while, but she was unpredictable, while we are things of point and purpose. When she lost the ancient skin, we went our separate ways, and found ourselves a lorry, long and dirty-grey. We drove the motorways and country roads, and took great crates of nothing to and fro, driving towards a different sort of terror. It wasn’t our cargo that brought fear, then. We brought fear to our cargo. Smiling, waiting patiently by the road, with cardboard signs of gentle hopes. In they went to the back, that silent heavy place, with boxes that seemed too big or too warm. They usually screamed as we drove and drove, fear thick in the air, and sometimes they died.

Some tried to leap from the back into the road, and one even made it through. Most stayed, getting weaker and weaker, their cries fading away as hunger and thirst and despair took their final hold. But we were not content. He didn’t laugh like he used to, driving aimless, waiting for the call sat badly with us, who were meant to know our destination. We were meant to have a cargo and an address, so it was we found a man named Breekon, and took everything they were until there was nothing left but the sweet taste of a broken soul’s disquiet and confusion.

We took the van and started to deliver once again. But we were reckless, desperate for the surety we had not felt since leaving the circus. And so we took the casket, a hungry thing of the earth, a crushing, choking tomb that will not let you die because it is too much what it is for death to find you there, within its mocking shape, buried alive.

It was one like us that found it, a thing of shifting names and deja-vu. A fool, that believed because it found the coffin in chains, it would be an easy thing to control, to bargain with. But there was no remorse when the test finally failed, and it fed on the thing that considered itself the master. No face to change in the cold, dark earth, no eye to fool where it is now.

But there was no mention of us in the deal, no thought to what might happen should a victim pass the test. And what happened was: we were stuck with it. It was still our cargo, nowhere to take it, no address or destination. So back in the van it went.

A long time we’ve carried it, keeping it as close as it wants, not listening to it sing in the rain. Even when the mannequin that now called itself Orsinov came back to us, told us we could help the world unknow and fear again the coming of strangers, still we had to drag it with us, an unclaimed package.

But I suppose it was worth it, in the end. When that Hunter killed him, when she took her violence of mindless instinct and unleashed it on us, it was there. It was waiting. I fed her to it. She took him from me, made us a me. And she doesn’t get to die for that. She gets to live, trapped and helpless, and entombed forever. No prey, no hunt. No movement.

We failed, but I have at least that comfort. I am without him now. I am. I can feel myself fading, weak, no reason to move, nothing to deliver. But I am no longer tied to the casket, so you can have it. You can stare at it, knowing how your feral friend suffers, knowing how powerless you are to help. And when you can’t bear it any longer, knowing that you can climb in, and join her. I have never known hate before. I have never known loss. But now they are with me always, and I desire nothing but to share them with you.

ARCHIVIST
(voice shaky) Statement.. ends.

[HE COLLAPSES.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE, A BIT LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES.]
BASIRA
Here.

[SHE SETS A CUP DOWN.]
ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

[HE PICKS UP THE CUP.]
BASIRA
Was it worth it?

ARCHIVIST
I - I don’t know. Maybe?

BASIRA
Did you at least learn anything?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Daisy’s alive, in there.

BASIRA
Right.

ARCHIVIST
Basira, we- we can’t [open-]

BASIRA
Yeah, I can read.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

Short pause.

BASIRA
So why give it to us?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t- I don’t know. T-to taunt us? To (inhale) lure us in as well?

[HE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
I-I saw that - thing’s mind; it’s lost on it’s own, no partner, no - purpose, I-I-I honestly think it just wanted to do another delivery.

BASIRA
And there’s no chance more of the circus survived the explosion?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t think so. I - at least - Breekon didn’t think so.

[HE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Where does the coffin lead?

ARCHIVIST
The Buried.

BASIRA
Right.

[SILENCE.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
(inhale, set) Right. Keep it safe; I’ll be gone a few days. I have some leads I need to follow up.

[WE HEAR THE RUSTLING OF HER MOVING AS SHE’S SPEAKING.]
ARCHIVIST
Sorry?

BASIRA
You heard me. Don’t ask about them. And don’t know about them either.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I can’t exactly control that.

BASIRA
(cutting him off) Learn.

ARCHIVIST
(sighing) I’ll do my best. (breath) You can trust me, Basira.

BASIRA
Stop saying that.

[SILENCE.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Do you know how I survived that-the Unknowing?

ARCHIVIST
I… No. No I don’t.

BASIRA
No powers, no.. magic or help. I was trapped in that place, and so I tried to figure it out. And I did, a little. So I kept doing it. I kept going through until I got out, I… reasoned my way out of that nightmare.

ARCHIVIST
Good Lord.

BASIRA
Then everything ended and Daisy was gone. And you were gone. And Tim.

And then I got back to the Institute and Martin sent me to meet the new boss. Then I stood alone in an empty office for more than an hour.

I can trust me, Jon. That’s it.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
I’ll try and be back in a week or two. Don’t think about me.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
And don’t open the coffin.

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS DRYLY.]
ARCHIVIST
It is addressed to me, (silence)

(somber) Yes, alright. Alright.

TAPE CLICKS OFF.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[A LIGHT THUD, AND SOME SHUFFLING OF PAGES, FOLLOWED BY THE CREAKING OF A DOOR; SOMEONE IS ENTERING THE ROOM.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin?

MARTIN
Uh - Jon - how did you?…

ARCHIVIST
I just, ha - I know sometimes.

It’s, It’s a whole - thing.

[AS HE SPEAKS, FOOTSTEPS SOUND THROUGHOUT THE ROOM.]
MARTIN
Oh. Okay. W-well, sorry, but I, I, um…

ARCHIVIST
You have to leave. Suddenly.

MARTIN
(almost to himself) Oh, (normal) Jon, come on, we’ve been over this -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) No, it’s fine; I know you’ve got… (big sigh) Whatever this is, I’m not going to question you.

MARTIN
(swallowing) Thank you.

ARCHIVIST
Even if it looks like you’re doing something really stupid.

[PAUSE.]
[A SLIGHT SIGH, THEN:]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Sorry.

MARTIN
It’s okay.

(breath)

I get it; it’s just -

ARCHIVIST
I worry. You’re working for someone (fumbles for words) really bad.

MARTIN
Yes, I’m not an idiot, Jon, but - it’s no worse than working for some thing really bad, so.

ARCHIVIST
At least the Eye hasn’t gone after our own.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Lukas has vanished two people -

MARTIN
Yeah, and if it wasn’t for me, it would have been a lot more.

[PAUSE; MARTIN MOVES TO LEAVE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
This isn’t helping anything.

ARCHIVIST
I just - (sigh) I’m sorry; Basira’s off doing- god knows what, and I can’t talk to Melanie.

MARTIN
(yeah, whatever, okay) Mhm.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
I suppo -

(he stops himself)

I miss you.

[MARTIN LETS OUT A SHORT LAUGH OF DISBELIEF.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I’m just -

MARTIN
Lonely.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[A SNIFF.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I, uh - I heard about your mother.

MARTIN
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I am - so sorry.

MARTIN
(slight hitch of breath) Thank you.

(drawn-out breath) It’s -… It’s better, this way.

ARCHIVIST
If, If you do need to talk, I -

MARTIN
I can’t.

ARCHIVIST
No. No, o-o-of course. (inhale) Listen, Martin, you should know -

MARTIN
Jon…

ARCHIVIST
Daisy might be alive. Basira is -

MARTIN
(overlapping) Stop. Stop, please; I - I shouldn’t know any of this, I -

[THERE’S A STRANGE SOUND HERE- IT COULD BE A LOW, RUMBLING STATIC, BUT IT COULD ALSO BE THE SOUND OF MARTIN GATHERING HIS THINGS. THE SOUND IT MOST CLOSELY RESEMBLES IS ACTUALLY THAT OF… ANOTHER TAPE RECORDER RUNNING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I, I really need to go; I, I -

ARCHIVIST
Right. (softer) Right.

[THE SOUND STOPS.]
MARTIN
Please stop finding me.

[HE GETS UP TO GO.]
ARCHIVIST
What happened, Martin?

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
You died.

ARCHIVIST
I came back.

MARTIN
Yeah -

[HE OPENS THE DOOR.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
- and I’m not going to let it happen again.

ARCHIVIST
Wait - Wait, wh -

[THE DOOR CLOSES. THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES, THEN SIGHS.]
TAPE CLICKS OFF.
INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Kulbir Shakya, regarding a flood that occurred around his house in Hackney. Original statement given September 4th, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
In many ways, I lost my home even before all this happened. I lived in that house my entire life. Hackney was my area, my community; it wasn’t some fashionable postcode or investment opportunity.

I should have seen the signs, I suppose. Little independent coffeeshops sprouting up like weeds between the paving stones. Micro-breweries and taprooms cropping up in old industrial estates. Even though the Prince of Wales had to close its doors because it couldn’t afford the new business rights. The faces I knew and recognized gradually being outnumbered by-young, trendy white people in artfully shabby clothes, who thought they were blending in… and precise-looking real-estate agents in well-pressed suits taking pictures of dilapidated buildings.

I complained, of course, made all the right noises of disapproval, but… I still drank the over-priced coffee. Still shopped at all the shiny new franchise outlets.

I thought because I’d been living there so long, I’d be alright. Hell, the house had been my grandfather’s before he died. But, we never had the money to actually buy it, and as property values skyrocketed, the landlord who had always seemed so understanding… suddenly started itching to sell. And there was no way I could afford the new rent on the meager salary of my admin job. I looked into getting roommates, subletting, all sorts. But by that point, I was already too deep in debt, and there was just no way I was going to be able to stay.

So I started the long and painful process of moving in with my sister. It was… humiliating. The flat she lived in with her husband was much smaller than the house, and I couldn’t afford a storage unit, so much of what I owned, a lot of which had once belonged to my grandfather, had to be thrown away. We actually got into a blazing row over his old khukuri.

He had been a Ghorkali, serving in the 5th Ghurka Rifles during the second World War. I have… complicated feelings on his military history, of course, but… he had always been fiercely proud of it. And that old knife had been one of his most treasured possessions. I didn’t keep it polished like he had, even at-ninety years old, but it reminded me of him. I could see his calloused hand on its hilt as he meticulously, almost mechanically, cleaned it, humming a tune the name of which I never learned. He had been a man of discipline, in many ways many harsh, but he loved me and my sister very much, and the idea of throwing away his blade felt like a- kick in my chest.

In the end, she agreed, though, and it wasn’t long before I was spending my last nights in an almost-abandoned house, shelves bare and wardrobes empty, trying my best to sleep on a mattress I knew I was leaving behind.

The letter came the next day. The envelope was slightly damp, like it had been carried through the rain, and it had my name printed on the front in a business-like Sans serif font. It looked at first like any other piece of financial junk mail you might glance at once and throw away, but I read it anyway.

The letter claimed to be from a financial firm named Eberhart and Strauss. At least, those were the names on the letterhead. The first words did nothing to dissuade me from my assumption it was junk mail. ‘Drowning in debt? We can help!’ in big, friendly text that seemed at odds with the pseudo-respectable image the rest of it seemed to be striving for.

But as I read through it, I realized that… not only was it addressed to me specifically (not a difficult job for modern batch printing,) but it made references to some very specific aspects of my situation. Precise amounts of debt. Names of creditors, and the sort of details that made it clear that this was definitely written to me. It didn’t give any indication of the exact assistance that Eberhart and Strauss was supposedly offering, but it did give an address, and told me to call on them at my convenience. At the bottom, in that same friendly typeface, it assured me that ‘we can help with the pressure.’

I don’t know what I expected; I really don’t. What, they were just going to hand me ten grand and another four hundred a month to cover the rent increase? I mean, I knew about loan sharks, and debt consolidation companies, and the-dozens of other scams that prey on those in desperate situations like mine. This was just going to be another one of them. But, the letter had been to me specifically, and maybe somewhere in the back of my mind… I was genuinely hoping for a way out.

The address they gave me was for a tall, thin building in Hammersmith that housed about a half dozen more firms and a couple of tech startups. It didn’t look like the sort of place that high-prestige businesses would have their premises?, and more than one of the names listed on the plaque next to the revolving door had been roughly scratched out, I assume indicating they were no longer in business.

I asked at the front desk about Eberhart and Strauss, and was directed to an extremely cramped lift that rattled me up to the fourth floor. There was a buzzer next to the door, and it seemed to be broken and made no sound at all when I pressed it. My finger came away wet, and looking up, I could see some sort of leak in the ceiling, dripping water down onto the button. I tried the handle, and the door opened, quietly.

The rooms beyond were empty. Bare wooden floors, no curtains or wallpaper, a few abandoned chairs and cheap-looking desks. The light switch did nothing, though the dull grey light of a cloudy day filtered through the window bright enough to see by. Every surface was damp, slick with old water and warped with mildew. It dripped slowly down the walls and seeped into the rotten wood of what furniture was left. I could see a line of liquid in the bare lightbulbs.

I was confused; obviously, I was, and stepped back out to double-check the door, and sure enough; these were the offices of Eberhart and Strauss. I felt… disgust rise in my throat; the awful, humid air of the waterlogged place sitting heavy in my lungs. I checked the draws in one of the desks, but… even if the mushy pulp inside had once been paper, it wasn’t anymore. Confused and angry, I turned around and left.

It started raining on the walk home. When would you start to worry about the rain? I don’t mean about it ruining your day or wrecking an event you’re planning, but at what point does it stop being normal and start to alarm you? I’ve lived my whole life in London, so I’ve seen plenty of rain in my time. I’ve lived through weeks when you catch what minutes you can when the sky closes for a moment and you can run to the bus stop. I’ve seen poorly maintained roads turn into tiny lakes, and I’ve seen Hackney towns turned into a muddy swamp. So the first day didn’t worry me.

The rain pounded down steadily outside, and I sat in my bare, dismal home, waiting for my sister to pick me up. It drummed on the roof, rhythmic and insistent, cascading off in tiny waterfalls, and just for a moment… I found myself almost completely at peace.

Then I felt a drop, heavy and wet, land on the back of my neck, and it shattered all at once. I looked up, and I saw the spreading patch of damp in the center of my ceiling. Evicted or not, part of me recoiled to see my home starting to finaly crumble, as though my leaving would take the last part of its hope.

The water was warm, and after the heat of the summer’s day, I breathed in, expecting the smell of petrichor. But the scent of the rain was something else, something earthy and cloying I couldn’t quite place.

It was a storm; there seemed to be no doubt of that, and I didn’t blame [Boana] for not wanting to drive in this weather. I was a bit annoyed that she hadn’t called, but looking at my phone it was quite clear it- wasn’t getting any signal.

Now, that wasn’t necessarily a surprise, given the storm, but it did present me with a problem: Namely, that my television and computer had already been sent over to my sister’s place, and without any signal, I was left with pretty much two options: sit doing nothing and listen to the rain, or head out into it. I opened the door for about three seconds before I decided that sitting and waiting was the better choice.

I walked upstairs, pulled a seat to the window overlooking the road, and… I sat there, watching. The drains were already starting to flood, puddles growing around the parked cars, reaching up and over, eager to meet in the middle to turn from a pool of water into something much more. I expected cars, maybe people running desperately to their homes, but the street outside was quiet, save for the pounding of the downpour.

Ten minutes. Twenty. Half an hour passed, and I didn’t see a single soul. Not a car, or a bike, not even a bus. That started to worry a bit; the 394 should pass by every fifteen minutes or so, but I definitely hadn’t seen it. Did they know something I didn’t? Was there some sort of weather warning out that I’d missed, for Hackney?

That was when I heard the first peal of thunder. There was no lightning, I want to be very clear on that. Nothing broke the uniform iron grey of the sky, dark and solid as far as I could see. But the thunder hit like a hammer. It rolled, deeper than I had heard even in the most violent of storms, and it just… kept going. I could feel it shaking through my whole body, and for a moment I thought that I was wrong, and it must have been a proper earthquake. Then it faded, and the world was silent again, save the impact of the rain.

When my watch told me it was nine o’clock, I dragged myself over to the mattress and told myself I might as well sleep through the rest of the storm, even though the sky seemed no darker than before. I tried to relax, and let the rhythmic tapping of the rain lull me off to sleep, like it always had when I was a boy, but I could find no comfort in it. It sounded too much like it wanted to get in.

The thunder woke me, another long, deep roar that seemed to come as much from the ground as it did from the clouds. The rain still hammered down outside, and I checked my watch, staring at it in confusion. It didn’t make any sense. It said it was three AM, the middle of the night, but looking out of the window, the world was still light.

The sky was cloudy and grey, as it had been the previous day, and the rain made it impossible to see further than the end of the street. But all the same, it definitely wasn’t night. There were no streetlights turned on, and, now that I looked for it, I couldn’t see any windows lit in any of the other houses on the street. It seemed like it was just me. Me and the steady, driving rain.

The road was beginning to properly flood now, with an inch or two of water creeping up over the edges, and starting to cover the pavement and climbing up the tires of the parked cars. I started to consider trying to leave. Perhaps I had missed some sort of official evacuation, some huge storm warning, and I was in terirble danger.

But no, that was ridiculous; this wasn’t some rural town panicking at the prospect of a flash flood; this was East London. If there was some sort of disaster coming, I would’ve seen something, an emergency vehicle, or at least someone in a high-vis vest. (sigh) I was overreacting. It was just the rain keeping everybody home. They all just wanted to stay dry.

I lied to myself until the water was too high for me to even consider going outside in it, and I was trapped. By the time it started to pour into the downstairs of the house, I had just about accepted that, whatever was going on, there was no longer a day or a night, just the storm and the rain and the thunder.

It’s odd how you gradually come to accept things as real. By the time you drop the last of your rationalizations, there’s no longer any surprise left in you, just an awareness that- no matter how wrong it might feel, it’s the reality you’re now in. I walked down the stairs, as low as I could without stepping into the water, and I watched it.

It was dark and murky, obscuring anything below its surface as soon as it was covered. I reached my hand out, and pushed it gently into the flood. It was warm, as warm as my hand and moments after the water covered it, my mind could no longer easily tell where my skin ended and the water began. It should only have been half a foot deep at most, but reaching in I couldn’t feel the floor. I pulled my hand out and returned upstairs.

By the time the rain stopped, it was halfway up the staircase, and had almost completely submerged the cars parked outside. The thrumming of the rain gave way to sudden silence, and for a moment I allowed myself the smallest sliver of hope. The streets outside were still, the top of the floodwaters flat and undisturbed. The sky remained those same dingy clouds, but it seemed to be holding its breath.

Then, one by one, the headlights on the cars lit up. They shone out into the water that covered them, faintly illuminating the murky liquid for a few feet below the surface. And that’s when I finally saw things moving. Silhouettes gliding through the water with smooth, undulating motions. They might’ve been the shape of people; it was hard to tell for sure. They moved too fast, darting in and out of the lights, before my eyes could fully register what they were seeing.

I left the window and returned to the mattress. I was tired; I was hungry; and, without the motion of the rain, the air had become intolerably humid. Every breath I took filled my lungs with that thick, wet scent, and it felt like I could barely get enough oxygen to think. The walls of my house were slick with moisture, now, and there was nowhere I could go to be dry, no way out of this oppressive, cloying damp. Then the thunder came for the last time. It shook and rattled with more force than it ever had before, and the empty oak wardrobe fell over with a crash.

I ran to the window and found that the floodwaters were rising again, but faster this time, and not because of any rain. The house, the street, the world, was sinking into that unending line of water, which I was now certain stretched out to the horizon. Inch by inch, foot by foot, everything was descending into the water’s embrace. It would wrap itself around me, reach down my throat and fill me with its choking darkness.

There was nothing I could do. As the water reached the top of the stairs and started to flow out towards my open bedroom door, I looked around desperately for any escape that I might have overlooked. And I saw something lying just behind the fallen wardrobe. It must have fallen there months ago. It was the worn leather sheath to my grandfather’s khukuri.

I walked over and picked it up. I stared at it. I could feel that warm, grasping water cover my feet, my ankles, slowly working its way up my calf, but in that moment all I could think about was my grandfather, and how he had looked when they gave him his diagnosis: Calm and solid.

He had thanked his doctor, without hesitation, and although I knew he had been afraid, he had spent those last months methodically preparing for the end. He had always endured his problems, never trying to squirm out of things he felt he had to face.

I gripped the sheath in both my hands and waded to the window. Corpses floated by, slowly waving at me gently, their lifeless hands grey and bloated. I ignored them, and stepped out into the water.

I don’t know if you have ever drowned, but it’s the most painful thing I have ever experienced. I tried to remain calm, to think on my grandfather and his firm, stony face, but even he had begged the painkillers at the end. Even he had been afraid.

My lungs spasmed painfully, desperately trying to wring air out of the warm, rancid water that filled them, and as I felt the water embrace me fully, pressing in on all sides, I gripped the last connection I had to the world I knew. The last thing I was conscious of was the water getting colder.

I don’t - remember them fishing me out of Regent’s Canal, or much of my treatment, to be honest. At a certain point it all blurs together. I’m alive, and that’s what matters. And I’ve been living with my sister and her husband for a month or two. She doesn’t believe me, of course, and is keen to put the whole thing behind us, though I catch her staring at me sometimes. I suspect she thinks I might have done it on purpose… but she doesn’t know. She doesn’t know what it’s like, to really hear the rain.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sigh) One thing that always strikes me when I read statements like this is… the bias of survivorship. With one or two notable exceptions, the only statements the Institute receives are those where the witness successfully escaped whatever terrible place or being has marked them for a victim. I wonder how many don’t make it out. How many of those shapes in the water were once just like Mr. Shakya.

Hm. (dry laugh) Or perhaps I shouldn’t wonder. Even as I say it, I can feel the knowledge pushing at my mind, eager to find a way in.

But I don’t want it. I don’t want to know. I don’t want to see. No more than I wanted to see how Gertrude stopped the Buried, and their ritual, but that came to me as well. (short sigh of a laugh) They called it “the Sunken Sky,” and she calculated, correctly, that casting a Void-touched body down the pit at the right time would be enough to disrupt it. Something she found, in Jan Kilbride.

But Gertrude also realized that the body need not be alive. Or in one piece. She thought it was a mercy. It wasn’t.

I don’t like this. I don’t like not being sure what’s going to be in my mind. What thoughts are mine and what are from… elsewhere. Why I just know some statements are just what I should be reading. I assume this one is related to the coffin, to Daisy. I haven’t heard from Basira since she left on whatever secret errand, and I’m no closer to understanding any of this.

(sigh) I suppose, if this one managed to free himself from the Buried, I-I-I - to find a way out of whatever part of choked embrace is drowning, I-I-I -

[THE STATIC OF THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS.]
I need an anchor. I - I could go in myself - I could find her, and - then I’d just need to get out.

[THE STATIC STOPS.]
I need something out here. Something I can know the way back to. I - I don’t know what. But… (short, dry laugh) It’s a start. (genuine delight)

End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, GERTRUDE’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
Do you mind?

LUCIA
What? Oh - no.

GERTRUDE
Excellent.

[SOUND OF A METAL CHAIR BEING PULLED OUT, THE LEGS DRAGGING AGAINST THE FLOOR.]
LUCIA
Why tape recorder? Why not digital?

GERTRUDE
Well, there’s nothing wrong with tape. A bit old-fashioned, but I suppose (amused) so am I.

LUCIA
Right. ..Yes, tha-that’s fine. It’s all fine.

GERTRUDE
Are you quite ready?

LUCIA
(intake of breath) Ah - Um -… Will it help?

GERTRUDE
I’m sorry?

LUCIA
Telling my story. Do you… will-will it help with the nightmares?

GERTRUDE
If that’s your primary goal, my dear, I would suggest you speak to a qualified counselor. We can suggest one, if you like.

That said, I do believe most people find the process of giving a statement to be rather… mm, cathartic. And whatever nightmares your experiences left you with, I’m sure they won’t be bothering you much longer.

LUCIA
Okay, then. (hm) So. What do I do?

GERTRUDE
Let’s start with your name.

LUCIA
Oh. (embarrassed laugh) Uh - Lucia. Lucia Wright.

GERTRUDE
And what is your statement regarding?

LUCIA
Just um… a hole. A hole filled with, uh… with meat.

GERTRUDE
Gertrude Robinson recording. December 19th, 2008. In your own time.

LUCIA
Right, okay, so. Um. I was on holiday, actually, meant to be, at least. No, no, I was. Whatever happened later, it was, technically, a holiday. Sorry. I’m rambling. I like to travel, when I can. I’m not one of those people who can take months and months and… go swimming with dolphins or… climb Machu Picchu. My job is very high-pressure. Well. It was.

The point is, I… used to take a lot of city breaks. Spending a long weekend flying off to anywhere with decent flights, and… seeing the sights. I generally try to take in an art gallery, a-a few of the best restaurants the guidebook recommends, and somewhere with a decent view of the whole city. And of course, a couple of churches.

I’ve… always had an odd relationship with churches. I suppose I was raised Church of England, but my parents were never very involved with it, and when I told them I wanted to stop going when I was fourteen, they didn’t make a fuss. I had a few years as an angry atheist, but when I was about twenty, I swung back the other way a bit, and became pretty fascinated with religion. Not in a believe sense, but I found it all really interesting, especially early Christianity and the church-so much politics over what it means to be good, to be holy. So many heresies about the Trinity, about - how human Jesus was, about - how many nails they used to crucify him - but more than that. I loved churches. These big, quiet, echoing spaces of peace and beauty, designed to quiet the soul, and prepare it for communion with the divine. Even if I didn’t actually believe in the god they were supposed to house, I always found them… meditative.

And whenever I went on one of my breaks, I’d always try to find a local church- hopefully not too full of other tourists like me - and spend an hour or two in quiet contemplation. I’d listen to the shuffling footsteps of the other people, and breathe in the lingering smell of incense, before lighting a candle to my grandmother. She had always been very religious- although, since most of the churches I visited were picked for their design, they tended to be Catholic or Orthodox, and I’m not sure how happy she had been about my lighting a candle for her in them. Still, at the end of the day, I did it for me, not her. She’s gone. There isn’t anything but us.

Anyway, when a deal came up in the middle of October for five days in Istanbul, I jumped on it. I’d heard a lot of lovely things about the city itself, but more importantly, I’d just been reading a brilliant series of articles on early schisms in the church, specifically the various gnostic sects that started springing up around the fourth century, many located in what was then Constantinople, and is now Istanbul.

Do you know about gnosticism? It’s the sort of dualism that places the purity and goodness of the spiritual world in opposition to the baseness and corruption of the material world. Some gnostic movements even go so far as to posit the existence of the demiurge: A counterpoint to the god of the spiritual world, who created material existence as a warped, imperfect imitation of its purity. Everything that is base, corrupt, and vile in the physical world comes from them. If God, as gnostics see him, is the god of the soul, then the demiurge could easily be called the god of the flesh. Of- bone and blood. Of meat.

I had read about an old gnostic temple some miles outside of Istanbul, and decided to make a short trip out to see it. When I got there, though, there was nothing but a disappointment. What the artfully lit photos had shown as stark and ancient, were in person just… empty and old. Whatever decoration there once had been had long since worn away, and only the occasional plastic tourist signs indicated it had ever been a place of worship. Whatever peace I was looking for, I wasn’t going to find it there. It was barely more than a ruin. More than that. I seemed to be almost entirely alone. There had been an old woman coming out of it when I arrived, but I hadn’t seen anyone apart from her, not even at the ticketing booth.

As I wandered the small building, I became more and more aware of the quiet, and of the wind that blew gently through the open windows. I did my best to shrug off the growing feeling of unease that had settled over me, and walked back outside. The taxi that had taken me had long since departed, and the temple stood alone, some distance from any other inhabited building. The afternoon was wearing on, and I didn’t fancy trying to walk all the way back to my hotel, but my initial plan of asking a staff member to call me another taxi was somewhat scuppered by their absence.

As I was considering my options, I heard the roar of an engine, and looked over to see a heavy-looking truck slowly rolling down the street towards me. It had no obvious markings, and the back of it was covered with a grey tarp. For some reason it filled me with the most intense dread I’ve ever felt, and I found myself stepping back, behind a pillar, desperately hoping I was out of sight.

The truck pulled around the side of the building, and I heard the engine stop. I crept forward, still not sure why I had such instinctive terror of what seemed to be on the surface a perfectly normal vehicle. But as three men climbed out of the front, and started to walk back towards the covered load, I started to realize I could smell something. Damp. Slightly sour, with the faintest hint of iron.

I realized what it was a moment before the tarpaulin fell, and revealed the huge pile of pink and white and brown. A-At first I thought the bodies were all human-that perhaps I had somehow stumbled upon some sort of - gang, disposing of a massacre’s worth of corpses.

But then some of them started to move. Squirming limbs were dragging, rising, extracting themselves from this massive mound of flesh, and making their way down to join their companions on the ground, one by one. Most of them could still be mistaken for humans at a distance. A few even wore clothes. No one said a word.

After a minute or so, it looked like everything that was going to climb down off the truck had done so. The pile of meat still rose several meters up from the back of the truck, and as much as I wanted to look away, I couldn’t. M-most of it was just- unidentifiable chunks, but a lot of it was clearly animal: chickens, lambs; I even saw a whole pig head.

Some of it was human. I could see a man’s torso near the top of the pile and an arm jutted out near the base, the hand splayed out at the end. I had the weirdest impulse to wave at it. The driver - or, the one I assume was the driver - then started to reach up onto the pile. He took a handful of meat, and turned to- whoever or whatever was nearest to him. He passed it on to them, and then they would turn, and head towards the back of the temple, towards an unmarked temple I’d assumed was staff only.

Now it was open, and they went in, one at a time. They didn’t come back out. All this time, I’d just been watching from my hiding spot, totally frozen in confusion and fear. As I said, the temple stood apart from any other buildings, and.. if I tried to leave, the chances were higher that I’d be spotted. I thought I could maybe just wait. Just. Stay where I was until these people had finished doing whatever it was they were doing. And then they would drive away, and I would leave, and spend the rest of my life pretending I had never seen anything, (breath) that I had gone to an art gallery instead.

This plan lasted right up until the driver saw me. It was my own fault. My leg was starting to cramp up, so I tried to shift position - but I didn’t realize just how painful it would be to move, and I let out a cry before I had a chance to stifle it. The driver’s head snapped up and focused on me. He was rail-thin, dressed in rough overalls, with shaggy black hair and pale skin. He was East Asian - Chinese, maybe, but he called me over in a crisp British accent. His tone was firm, but unhurried, and to my ears, not immediately threatening. So I did as he asked.

I walked, slowly, but deliberately over to him, hands out to my side, doing my best to show him I wasn’t a threat. I made the decision that-whatever was happening, my best chance to make it out was just - keep doing as I was asked.

By the time I reached the truck, the smell was so thick I could taste it. I stood there, legs shaking, muttering a prayer to a god I didn’t even believe in. He stared at me for what felt like hours, but - can’t have been longer than a few seconds. And he shrugged. Turned to the truck and picked up what looked like the back half of a goat. He held it out to me, expectantly. Honestly, I was so surprised I just took it on instinct. The driver nodded to himself, like he’d made the right decision, and I turned, and started to walk towards the door, afraid that any hesitation might make him reconsider, mark me out as something other than what he had decided I was.

I - don’t eat much meat, and rarely ever cook it myself, but I held that cold haunch to me like a talisman. As if it might ward whatever awful thing waited inside that door. As I got closer, I saw one of the others, a tall, gangly woman with arms that bent backwards leaving the entrance. She had to stoop to get through. But as she raised back up to her full height, I felt her eyes rest on me for a second. I didn’t slow my pace or meet her gaze. She walked past me quickly, on the way back to the truck for her next load.

I stepped through the entrance, moving carefully down what looked to be a rough-hewn stone stairway. It went deeper and deeper, far below where any normal basement might have been. So narrow at points that I had trouble fitting. My mind kept trying to imagine meeting one of the less human-looking things coming back up the other way, but I didn’t let it. Finally, I reached the bottom, and stepped out into a scene I s-s-still see every time I close my eyes.

I don’t know how big the room would have been to begin with. Only one side had anything that might’ve once been considered an interior wall. The others were rough rock and stone, clearly hollowed out and extended until the place must have been almost forty yards across. In the middle of the floor, taking up almost the entirety of the strange vault, was a pit. (mm) No, not a pit. Not exactly. The others stood around the edge, throwing their burdens down into it one piece at a time. And there, at the bottom, was another pile. One that dwarfed the truck outside. One that would have dwarfed a hundred trucks. Because I couldn’t actually see the bottom. For all I know, it could’ve gone down forever, an endless pillar of flesh.

But then it moved, and I realized in a second what it actually was I was looking at. Not a pit. A mouth. I feel a strange, deep pride that I didn’t scream. I didn’t panic, though my mind felt like it was trying to shut down at the repulsive sight. Instead, I forced myself to take my place there at the edge, and hurl my… offering down into it. It accepted it greedily. I wish I could say I ran, then, or that I found a clever trick to escape, but I didn’t. When I returned to the surface, I was handed more meat, before I even had a chance to consider getting away.

So I decided I would keep up the ruse until the truck was empty, in the hopes that I would have a chance later. But as we unloaded the last of the grim cargo, and I carried a heavy, red tongue down into the vault, I saw another truck pull up, almost identical to the first; then another; then another.

There was no end to them. Day turned into night turned into day again, and still I carried meat, and threw it into the hole. And my back was screaming. My legs were weak. And my mind was numb from terror. But I was spurred on by one thing: the woman with the backwards arms had fallen, sometime in the night, and her companions had showed no hesitation. They had gripped her shoulders, hoisted her up, and hurled her straight into the gaping maw. I swore it wouldn’t happen to me.

All through this, the mouth got closer and closer to the edge of the pit. The pile of flesh within it grew larger and larger, sat there in an awful, half-solid slurry, chewed and crushed together. It was impossible to tell what had once been animal, and what might have once been us. It was all just meat.

And as the mouth got closer, the smell got stronger. The air became thick, and the walls began to sweat a pinkish liquid, like cutting into a steak. More of those workers had been thrown in, replaced by others brought in the- endless procession of meat trucks. I didn’t know what was going to happen when it finally reached the top, but I knew it would be something bad. Something unspeakable. And I would have helped make it happen.

When the explosion came, it was a blessed relief. A deep rumble passed through the structure of the building, a deafening cry of rage and dismay that came from below, as the roof collapsed downwards, burying it under a torrent of rubble and stone.

I was lucky. At that moment, I had been stood in the bottom of the stairwell, and as the world collapsed around me, I began to sprint up the stairs. But I barely made it halfway up before that toppled as well, and I felt the foundations of the temple above fall down around me. I thought I was dead. I wish I had been.

I don’t know how long I lay-trapped there before Turkish rescue workers found me. Certainly long enough that the scent of rot began to waft up from far below. I was delirious and barely conscious. I-I tried to warn them, to tell them to finish the job - but all that did was convince them that there might be other survivors.

They, um, haven’t told me what they found down there. They paid for my flight home, but haven’t told me anything. I don’t know anything. I, I just want to sleep. (businesslike tone) That’s it. That’s all I have. That’s what happened.

GERTRUDE
And… Do you feel any better?

LUCIA
No.

GERTRUDE
Well that’s a shame. Hang on, let me see if I can find you the number for that counseling service. They’re, They’re actually quite good.

[AS SHE SPEAKS, SHE MOVES, AND WE HEAR THE RUSTLING OF HER CLOTHES AND A COUPLE OF FOOTSTEPS.]
LUCIA
If you say so.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, GERTRUDE’S OFFICE, LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
Well. That is a relief. When I heard there had been survivors of the Last Feast, I was rather concerned that one of them might be able to positively identify me, (ha) which could land me in all sorts of trouble. (she inhales) But she doesn’t seem to remember me at all.

Tom Haan might be a bit more of a problem, as it looks like he also survived, but I’m hopeful he has been weakened enough by this failure to not be an issue in the near future. Hopefully, he’ll fade away or burn out as they tend to when robbed of their purpose. Still, I should keep a watch on him in case of any erratic behavior that might lead to complications. Also worth watching out for any… additional esoteric fallout from the ritual attempt, like that Carlisle boy down in Wandsworth.

Dekker really came through with the explosives. It almost felt like cheating. Sad about the loss of history, but… Miss Wright didn’t seem to think the old gnostic church got many visitors anyway. I’m honestly impressed she had the strength to get through it, even if she does seem to have been.. deeply affected by it. Shame about the dreams. I would avoid them if I could.

At least we know for sure that these grand rituals can be disrupted by conventional means, though a more… nuanced approach will be needed for some of them, I’m sure.

Also… I can’t rely on having this much lead time. I’ve had ten years tracking supplicants drawn by the siren call of flesh, watching them gradually stockpiling meat. Very useful, in terms of preparation time for derailing the final push, but in future, I think I need to get a little bit more… pro-active.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
I found this tape tucked in a corner of my desk drawer (sigh) covered in cobwebs. I suppose subtlety has gone out the window a bit, and the question is now simply… how much I trust the Spider to have my best interests at heart.

Hm. I suspect my assuming it has a heart might be a clue I’m looking at this the wrong way. (sigh) Even so, and - leaving aside the matter of Gertrude’s actions for a moment - what is it trying to tell me with this? Is it about… rituals? About getting Daisy back?

About - About an anchor. What was it she said, “the siren call of flesh.” Hm. It’s possible, I suppose. It would - hurt, but - well, what’s another scar?

(small sigh) It’s been two weeks since I heard from Basira. I’m not waiting any longer. I’m getting Daisy back.

End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[DEEP BREATH]
[BREATHING INTENSIFIES]
[DETERMINED EXHALATION]
[THUNK]
[A WHIMPER]
[WET RIPPING, AS OF EXTRACTING A BLADE FROM FLESH]
[PAINED SOUNDS]
[TAPE CRACKLING AS THE ARCHIVIST GRUMBLES AND BREATHING EVENS OUT]
[CLEARING OF THROAT AS A SECOND CLEAVING IS ATTEMPTED]
[THUNK]
[MORE WHIMPERING]
[FLESHY EXTRACTION AND TAPE CRACKLING AGAIN]
ARCHIVIST
[Pained frustration] Oh, come on… Everyone else can carve up the Archivist, but when he actually needs it…

[NOISE OF FRUSTRATION AS METAL CLATTERS TO THE GROUND]
MELANIE
What’re you doing?

ARCHIVIST
[Surprised] Oh! Uh…

[CLOSES DESK DRAWER]
Melanie, I-I’m… S-Sorry, I didn’t, er… I didn’t know you were there.

MELANIE
[Enunciating carefully] What are you doing?

ARCHIVIST
I’m… Would you believe I’m… trying to save Daisy?

MELANIE
[Sharply] With more bullshit surgery?

ARCHIVIST
Oh I… Melanie, I-I-I’m so sorry.

MELANIE
[Weary] Oh, fuck off!

ARCHIVIST
I was trying to save your life.

MELANIE
Yes, well… you did. I think. But I also, y’know, see your face now, when I wake up screaming. I feel you digging into my leg. Chalk it up as a win for Team Archive, I guess.

ARCHIVIST
I wanted to ask you.

MELANIE
And if you had, we wouldn’t be talking right now. I’d have said no, and I’d probably have hurt you. Basira was right. The only way to do it was to completely betray my trust, and destroy any remaining sense of safety.

So, yes. Thank you.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I-I’m… I’m surprised you can stand to see either of us.

MELANIE
[Frustratedly] Who else is there? I mean, Basira is… heh. She’s been the only one for a long time and, yes, I, sort of, maybe, hate her now. I don’t know. I can’t look at her without my leg hurting. But what else am I going to do? I don’t want to be on my own, and I’m stuck here. So…

ARCHIVIST
Basira said you were doing better.

MELANIE
[Distressed] Would you just stop? [Getting agitated] This isn’t better. I’m not dying, and I don’t want to kill you. It’s-It’s… it’s just different! Yes, it’s sort of, ‘better’, maybe, but… but I can’t -

ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND)
No… Right, no I - Y-Yeah, Melanie-

Melanie…

MELANIE
Don’t tell me to calm down! Don’t you dare!

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I…

[MELANIE EXHALES, REGATHERING COMPOSURE]
MELANIE
Basira is… um. Basira deals in ‘intel’ these days, in usable data, assets. Not feelings. Not people. Crying, shaking, nightmares… that is better. It doesn’t feel like it, but as far as Basira sees it… I’m not ‘compromised’ anymore. And… that… is better.

ARCHIVIST
At least it’s out. Maybe… maybe It’s enough to start healing? Start letting go of the anger.

MELANIE
Oh just stop! Just stop and listen!

ARCHIVIST
Okay.

MELANIE
[Charged tones] Yes, the bullet was bad, right, but it didn’t make me angry. Anger is… Anger’s been all I’ve had for a very long time. Years. Maybe since… oh, I, I don’t know. But everything I’ve done, everything I pushed for was because I was angry.

Angry at being passed over, being disrespected, ignored. That sort of anger, it - it powers you. Right up until it slips out and hurts someone.

I hurt someone. And then one day, I suddenly have this thing that takes all that rage, and it holds it, tells me it’s right, that it’s me. It didn’t stay in my leg because of some ghostly masterplan. It stayed because I wanted it.

ARCHIVIST
[Realising] Shit.

MELANIE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
…

Melanie, I -

MELANIE
So, why are you trying to chop off your finger?

ARCHIVIST
[Awkwardly] Oh! I… I um… I nee-need a… I’ve been thinking of it a-as an anchor. I think. I… know. Something I have a connection to, th-that I can use to find my way out of the Coffin when I reach Daisy. I-I figured the strongest anchor would be… part of my own body.

MELANIE
Okay. So… just cut it off.

ARCHIVIST
I’m doing my best.

MELANIE
Hmph. Can’t go through with it?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, th-the blade keeps going in. And… it hurts. Hurts plenty.

But then it heals up. Pretty much the moment I take it out. No wound, no scar, nothing.

MELANIE
I could try?

ARCHIVIST
I… don’t think that would be a good idea right now.

MELANIE
Maybe not.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, you’d think I’d have a better idea how to do it.

All these… all these statements and…

[SMALL LAUGH]
You know who I need? I need the Boneturner. [Sighs] Just reach in and grab a rib. Job done.

MELANIE
…

ARCHIVIST
What?

Melanie?

MELANIE
Come with me.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[FOOTSTEPS ON STONE, VOICES SOUND ECHOEY]
ARCHIVIST
I was down here just yesterday, and there wasn’t -

MELANIE
Here.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. This, this door… It shouldn’t be here.

MELANIE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I don’t want to open it.

I’m not going to.

[MELANIE SIGHS, KNOCKS ON THE DOOR]
MELANIE
She’s been helping us.

ARCHIVIST
[Sharply] It has never helped anyone. Not without a cost.

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
HELEN
If I am an “it”, Archivist, then what does that make you?

[THE DOOR CREAKS CLOSED]
MELANIE
Hi, Helen.

ARCHIVIST
[Coldly] I have been told you can help.

HELEN
I have been trying to. But the last time you were very rude to me.

ARCHIVIST
You’re still wearing her face.

HELEN
Not this again. I’m not “wearing” anything, Archivist. I am at least as much ‘Helen Richardson’ as you are the ‘Jonathan Sims’ that first joined this Institute. Things change. People change. It happens.

ARCHIVIST
We’re not people, though, are we? Not any more.

HELEN
Names. Categories. It’s all so important to you, isn’t it? You do know none of it’s actually real. It’s all just meaningless boxes.

MELANIE
Is… He still in there?

HELEN
Oh, yes. He’s not exactly something I can… digest. He’s a bit of an irritant, to be honest. If you’re looking to let him out, I could be persuaded.

ARCHIVIST
When did you say they attacked?

MELANIE
A couple of months ago.

ARCHIVIST
And he’s been in there… ever since?

HELEN
I helped clean up.

MELANIE
After I, uh… took care of things.

ARCHIVIST
All this time. Why didn’t anyone tell me?

MELANIE
Basira said not to.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

Why didn’t you kill him?

MELANIE
I stabbed him in three different hearts. Didn’t work. If you want to go hunting for a fourth, knock yourself out.

ARCHIVIST
I…er… I’m alright, I think

MELANIE
So, what’s the plan?

ARCHIVIST
Right. I go in, I offer freedom if he… helps. Then I hope he doesn’t kill me. If he tries anything…

HELEN
I would suggest running. Try to find a door.

ARCHIVIST
Naturally.

[DEEP BREATH]
Oh, er… Er, pass the recorder?

MELANIE
Seriously? Fine.

[RECORDER IS PASSED TO THE ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
[FOOTSTEPS]
[THE DOOR CREAKS CLOSED]
[ECHOES & STATIC AS THE ARCHIVIST WANDERS THE DISTORTION’S CORRIDORS]
ARCHIVIST
Hello?

[MORE WALKING]
Is, uh… Uh, hello?

[KEEPS WALKING]
Did I -

[SOFT SQUELCHING STEPS]
No. W-Wait… I came from…

[WET, FLESHY MOVEMENT AND CRACKING BONES]
Er, J-Jared Hopworth?

JARED
That’s what it says on me licence.

(TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE: JARED’S SPEECH IS ACCOMPANIED BY CONTINUOUS SOUNDS OF WET, MOBILE MEAT AND THE OCCASIONAL BONY SNAP OR CLICK. TOO MUCH FOR ME TO RECORD INDIVIDUALLY. JUST TRY TO IMAGINE THAT AS YOU’RE READING… IF YOU CARE TO, THAT IS.)
Mind you, the picture’s a bit out of date.

[WET, MEATY LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
Y-yes.

JARED
I try to kill you. And you throw me in here. And now what? You just walk in?

ARCHIVIST
I-I didn’t- That wasn’t me.

JARED
Your people. Your gaff.

ARCHIVIST
And you wanted to kill… me, specifically?

JARED
Still do.

[OMINOUS SHIFTING, CRACKING & POPPING]
ARCHIVIST
Right. But… you know if you do, you’re never getting out of this place.

JARED
…

What do you want?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I want a favour.

JARED
For letting me out?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

JARED
Alright.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. O-Okay. D-Do you need to know… w-what it is?

JARED
Not much you could want, comin’ to me. Put summat in. Take summat out. Which is it?

ARCHIVIST
Take something out.

A bone. A rib, probably. S-Something I won’t miss.

JARED
Done. Come ‘ere.

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… H-How do I know you won’t just reach in and kill me? W-W-What guarantees do I have?

JARED
Guarantees? None. But I want to leave more than I want to kill you. Not like it was my idea in the first place.

ARCHIVIST
So…

[Compellingly] Why did you and the others attack us?

JARED
I was asked. You want my statement, that’s gonna cost you another rib.

ARCHIVIST
I-I could just pull the information out of you.

[MENACINGLY MEATY MURMURS]
JARED
You could try.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. Fine. A rib for me, a rib for you, your freedom and a statement.

JARED
Yeah. Alright.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Statement first.

JARED
…

Fine.

ARCHIVIST
Uh. Statement of Jared Hopworth, the Boneturner.

Statement begins.

[THROATY LAUGH]
JARED (STATEMENT)
Where do you want me to start? Growing up? My folks? How ‘bout that growth spurt when I was nine? It left me taller than all the other kids. I hated them, the way they stared. But they were, and that felt good, even back then. It felt right. My Dad was proud of it too. He was a short man, bully, and watching me loom over people really made ‘im happy. Mum just scowled, but then… huh, she always did.

I wrecked my school. I did have friends, but they left me, one by one, until all that I had were the dregs; the ones who stayed ‘coz they were too scared to leave. We were always either in trouble, or looking for it. Those were bad times. I tried to look ahead, but I couldn’t see anything. No future, no hope; just bitter parents, and whatever misery I could pass on to everyone else. God knows what would’ve happened if that little prick Sebastian hadn’t given me that book.

I didn’t know what it was at first, not really. But it talked to me about bones and flesh and muscle and blood; the bits of myself I actually knew and liked. So I listened, and I read, and I learned. I fumbled through the lessons the book wanted to teach me, and my first try was clumsy. Stupid. Turns out, Dad didn’t like being tall nearly as much as he thought he would. And Mum didn’t like her new smile, either. So I left.

I wandered around for a bit. Worked a lotta jobs where it didn’t matter what you looked like. There’s always a spot for someone who can get rid of people. You must have heard about me. I left plenty of people scared and crying, itching to tell someone what happened to ‘em. Some of them must have made it to you.

There were others. Others of skin and hunger; they tried to talk to me about gods. They’d go on and on about remaking the world; of a new day of blood and flesh. I told them to piss off. I like the world just as it is. I take what I want and I make myself more, and when people look at me… that fear - it feels amazing. Some of my mates, the ones I helped find their proper bodies, they listened, and went to feed the hunger. Not me though. I never was that ambitious.

The letters started comin’ in about two years ago. Good white paper, large print. Nice and simple. Dunno who sent them, they were never signed, and I dunno how they kept finding me. There was never much in them; normally just a name and a place or a time. I ignored the first couple, but they kept coming, and eventually I got curious. So, I followed the instructions in one of ‘em. I found Regan Hasnain of 70 Clairmont Gardens, and that got rid of most of my doubts. I don’t blame people for thinking that all bones are the same, most people don’t have much experience, but it’s not true. There are good bones, and there are bad bones, and Regan Hasnain had some very good bones in her. They were solid, healthy, and they jumped at my touch. I didn’t doubt the letters again.

They came pretty regular after that. And they always led to summat good. Quality bones, a new mate, or some unlucky fool who wouldn’t look at me for the fear. It got so I trusted them. The letters, I mean. So I didn’t question them. There’s a lotta stuff in this world I’ve never understood, and these were no different. Then I got one about your lot, your Archives. Told me to go there and kill you. They even sent a picture.

So I did. Well, I tried. Didn’t know about those tunnels or wherever this place is, but the pipes… they were wide enough for me and a few friends to squeeze through, bit by bit, one bone at a time.

[DEMONSTRATIVE CRACKING ACCOMPANIES THIS]
When we came up through the floor, it was wonderful. I don’t think I’ll ever forget the look on their faces. It was like their world had gone with the floor. The weak one legged it, and I thought the skinny one did too. There was just the copper. It weren’t dressed like one, but I know police when I smell it. They tried to run, but we were everywhere, and they couldn’t stop us undoing them for parts. You weren’t there, which was sad, but it made it easier.

At least until the knife. I don’t know what the skinny one did, what she was, but that knife hurt. She screamed, and stabbed, and cut through all the others, ruining their perfect bodies. Then, she turned on me. Reached out with some of my hands, to get inside her, and pull her apart, and she cut them off. I got… scared. So I ran. I ran through the first door I found. And now I don’t know where I am.

I’m startin’ to think the letters were a trap. Was it you? Did you want me here? ‘Coz if so, well played. Mind you, lot of trouble to go through just to lose a rib, so maybe not.

That’s it, then.

Do you want to do this, or what?

ARCHIVIST
That’s it?

[HE SNORTS]
Hardly worth a rib.

[JARED LOOMS FORWARD]
[Placatingly] Alright! Alright.

Is it, uh… Is is going to hurt?

JARED
Dunno. Doesn’t hurt me.

[THE ARCHIVIST MAKES IT BE KNOWN THAT IT DOES RATHER]
[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF MEAT AND BONE MOVEMENT]
That’s yours. What’s it for?

[PAINED SOUNDS OF RECOVERY]
ARCHIVIST
[Stumblingly] Um… A, A-An anchor

JARED
Huh. Right.

Anyway, this one’s for me.

[MORE MOBILE MEAT NOISES, THIS TIME OF INSERTION]
Huh. That’s a weird one. Not sure I like it. Still. Mine now.

ARCHIVIST
[Weakly] I supp… I suppose it is.

JARED
You said I could leave.

ARCHIVIST
Y-yes. Just, uh… I-If you start walking that way, I-I-I’m sure there’ll be a door for you.

JARED
There’d better be.

ARCHIVIST
Y-Y-Yes, I, uh…

[COLLAPSES]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HELEN
Still alive?

MELANIE
Seems to be, yes.

HELEN
And he’s certainly holding a bone. For some reason.

MELANIE
Said it was going to be an anchor.

HELEN
Hmm. Bodies are strange. Rather glad they’re not my concern anymore.

MELANIE
Must be nice.

HELEN
It really is.

MELANIE
…

Did you let that… thing go?

HELEN
He found a door.

MELANIE
[Alert] Where did he come out?

HELEN
The door may have been in a wall some distance above a river.

[MELANIE CHUCKLES]
MELANIE
Nice.

ARCHIVIST
[Groggy] It… um?

HELEN
All done.

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

[WINCES]
Thank you. For your… uh. For your help.

HELEN
You are very welcome. I have decided that I support what you are doing, and I am happy to assist. I think we’ll all be much happier this way.

MELANIE
Basira’s not going to be happy that you let him out.

ARCHIVIST
Basira isn’t here.

And if this works, I’ll have Daisy waiting for her when she gets back, so I don’t think she’ll be thinking too much about Jared.

MELANIE
You’re going now?

[PAINED CHUCKLING]
[PAINED BREATHING]
ARCHIVIST
No. No, now I am going for a lie down. That was… that was not what I expected.

MELANIE
Come on, you can use Basira’s cot.

HELEN
Good luck, Archivist. Be seeing you.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, COFFIN ROOM]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
(under his breath) Alright.

[HE HITS PLAY ON A DIFFERENT TAPE.]
DAISY (ON TAPE)
[…] Was a coffin. An old, wooden coffin. Rough, unvarnished. I could see splinters where the nails had been hammered in badly. Wrapped all around it was a thick metal chain ending in a heavy padlock. That weird moaning was coming from inside it. It was the only sound that cut through pounding rain.

[THE ARCHIVIST CLICKS DAISY’S TAPE OFF, AND EJECTS IT FROM THE PLAYER. WE HEAR HIM PUT A FRESH TAPE INTO WHAT MUST BE A PLAYER/RECORDER. HE CLICKS IT ON. HE TAKES A LONG, SHAKY BREATH, STEELING HIMSELF FOR WHATEVER IS TO COME.]
ARCHIVIST
Hello, Melanie. I.. know I said we’d wait until Basira was back, b, but I, I don’t… (heavy sigh) I-I’m sorry. I, I-I know she won’t - (sigh) She’d want to do it a different way. But I know what I’m doing; this time I do. I, I hope. I have her voice. I think that should be enough to find her, and, and I’m leaving my - (can’t say it) I’ll leave it with the tape. I should be able to find my back to it. I think. (pause) Wish me luck.

…Although, I suppose if you’re hearing this, then I.. I didn’t have any. I don’t know. I, I’m - (slight pause) I’m scared? (dry laugh) When does the fear go away? (pause) A-Anyway, I’m sorry.

You too, Basira, if you’re hearing this. (pause) I know you’d - stop me. You’d be right to, but - but if this goes wrong, all you lose is - (abrupt) I’m not risking anyone else. And I know - (pause) I-I think. I can get her out.

[HE CLICKS THE TAPE OFF.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Right. You’re coming with me.

[HE SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Let’s do this one properly.

[WE HEAR A STATIC BEGIN TO RISE; IT’S FROM THE COFFIN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
No need for that. I’m willing.

[THE STATIC FADES AWAY AS IMMEDIATELY AS IT CAME.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Right.

[HE LIFTS THE PADLOCK, AND THE CHAIN RATTLES AS HE PULLS IT OFF AND THEY FALL TO THE FLOOR. THEN WE HEAR THE OMINOUS RATTLING CREAK AS HE PULLS OPEN THE LID OF THE COFFIN.]
[HE CLICKS ON A TORCH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(slightly shaky) Stone steps. Roughly hewn. (slight pause) They, uh… They keep going. (brave face) Well. No point in waiting.

[WE CAN HEAR HIS BREATH SHAKE SLIGHTLY AS HE STEPS INTO THE ECHOING COFFIN. THE LID CLOSES ABOVE HIM ALMOST IMMEDIATELY WITH A HOLLOW THUMP.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Christ.

[HE TAKES A DEEP, SHAKY BREATH, AS WELL AS A FEW STEPS.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. COFFIN]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[WHEN THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS, HIS VOICE SOUNDS STRAINED, AS IF HE’S UNDER SOME SORT OF INTENSE PRESSURE. WE HEAR HIS CLOTHES RUSTLE AS HE MOVES.]
ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure how long it’s been. The steps ended, eventually. There’s passages, but - it’s very, uh… It’s close. I’m having some trouble, but. I’m going the right way. I know it. I just - I-I just need to keep moving. When I stop, it -

[HE GRUNTS, TAKES ANOTHER STEP.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(even more strained) It starts to - p-press on me.

[MORE RUSTLING.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Just keep going.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I-I can’t stand. Anymore. I - It’s - It’s not a passage. Not anymore. It’s a tunnel.

[THE RUSTLING NOISES GET LOUDER FOR A SECOND.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Barely that. But I’m - I’m definitely getting closer. (strained) If I can just -

[THE RUSTLING INCREASES IN VOLUME AND INTENSITY AS THE ARCHIVIST MAKES A FEW SOUNDS OF EXERTION. FINALLY, HE MAKES IT THROUGH WHATEVER TIGHT SPACE HAD BEEN HOLDING HIM BACK, AND HE LETS OUT A NOISE OF RELIEF.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
My torch is broken. I didn’t even drop it. It - It got caught against the wall, and -

[MORE RUSTLING.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Crushed. God, I - (inhale) I don’t even know how long I’ve been here.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST’S VOICE IS MUCH CLOSER AND DEFINITELY RASPIER.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I - heard someone. He was begging off of me to save him. Said he couldn’t breathe. (slight pause, gasp) I can barely breathe. I couldn’t find him. But I am - (strained) not here for him. I don’t know him. I can’t - I can’t see anything here. For all this place closes around me, I-I feel a drift. Like nothing can get through the dirt and the muck and -

[HE LOSES HIMSELF TO THE MOVING FOR A SECOND.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I still have Daisy’s tape. And I still think I’m going the right way. When I move at all.

[THE RUSTLING GETS LOUDER AND THE MOTION MORE JERKY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Feels like every inch costs me another scrape, o-or bruise. (inhale, his voice sounds more normal) I’d hoped I was beyond that, but apparently not. And -

[HE LETS OUT A VERY PAINED SOUND.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
The air is heavy. Soil and dust. I am - very thirsty. But I know I won’t die of it. (moving again) I won’t die of anything down here. Not ever. Not if I - can’t find my way out. When I first came down, I could feel it, the - the part of myself I left outside, but - (inhale) But it’s been getting fainter and now… I’ll try not to think about it. Don’t - Don’t want to stretch my mind, to try and see, in case it’s not there at all. I can’t afford to think about it. Not now.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[WE ARE IMMEDIATELY GREETED WITH THE ARCHIVIST’S CRY OF PAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I-I think - (more cries) Oh god. I-I-I think I’m-I’m stuck.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[HE’S STILL STUCK. WE CAN TELL BY THE EXTREMELY LABORED CRIES OF PAIN. BUT THEN HE STOPS. HE’S CUT OFF BY - A ROLL OF THUNDER?]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Wha-What?

[THE DRONING RUMBLING CONTINUES, AND AS THE ARCHIVIST TAKES SEVERAL SHAKY BREATHS OF SURPRISE, IT GETS LOUDER.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(whisper) Oh no. N -

[THERE’S A CRACK, AND WHAT SOUNDS LIKE A LANDSLIDE, IF YOU COULD FIND A LANDSLIDE INSIDE A COFFIN. THE ARCHIVIST YELLS, MAKES SEVERAL STRANGLED SOUNDS, FOLLOWED BY MANY MORE SOUNDS OF PAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Daisy! J - DAISY!

[MORE SOUNDS OF STRUGGLE.]
DAISY
(from far away) Jon!

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Daisy, can you reach me?

DAISY
(is this a dream?) I can’t. Can’t see you.

ARCHIVIST
Follow my voice.

DAISY
Is that? - I, I can’t -

[PAINED SOUND FROM THE ARCHIVIST.]
ARCHIVIST
Ah -

DAISY
You - You’re real. You’re real.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. (pain) I’m here, Daisy.

DAISY
(still hazy) Daisy. Yeah. Daisy. That’s me.

[SHE LETS OUT A SHORT, MIRTHLESS LAUGH.]
ARCHIVIST
Are you alright?

DAISY
I, I, I can’t move; I - I can’t - And I can’t - breathe, and -

[SHE STARTS BREATHING HEAVIER.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh, god.

DAISY
Just - alone. I, I think. I think. I hear, uh, this, sometimes - singing. When it’s we - when it’s wet. Or scratching, trying to get out - But I don’t - I don’t - (struggling to get the words out) I don’t think there’s - there’s anyone - there. (continues struggling) It’s just - It’s just - me. Til now.

ARCHIVIST
Are you… Are you okay?

DAISY
No.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry. Obviously. No, I just meant - Y, You sound- okay.

DAISY
Do I?

ARCHIVIST
I thought you might’ve been - taken over. By the Hunt.

DAISY
What?

ARCHIVIST
The Hunt. You’re a Hunter.

DAISY
(strained) Yeah - I guess I was. But- not here.

ARCHIVIST
No.

DAISY
N-no. I- I can’t f-feel my blood. I could always feel it- I can’t, It can’t reach me here. (struggles) Where are we?

ARCHIVIST
The coffin. We’re in the coffin. I-It leads to… Well, it’s got a lot of names. Choke. The Buried. (pain) Too-Close-I-Cannot-Breathe.

DAISY
Yeah. Sounds - sounds right.

ARCHIVIST
Come on. (pain) Let’s get you out of here.

DAISY
Can’t - can’t move. Even - if I - if I could. There’s no way out.

ARCHIVIST
It’s okay, I’ve uh - I’ve got a plan.

DAISY
I-Is this like all your other plans?

ARCHIVIST
It’s fine; I just - I just need to - to find it.

DAISY
What?

ARCHIVIST
Come on. Come on, where are you?

DAISY
Jon?

ARCHIVIST
Come on.

[A LARGE, LOW RUMBLING BEGINS. THE ARCHIVIST BREATH TURNS RAGGED. THERE’S A STATIC.]
DAISY
Jon?

ARCHIVIST
I know.

DAISY
Th-The way out?

ARCHIVIST
No. I know where we are. There isn’t no out, not here. This is- This is forever deep below creation. Where the weight of existence bears down. This is The Buried, and we are alive. There isn’t even an up. Oh god. (pain) What have I done?

[SILENCE, BUT FOR DAISY’S BREATHING.]
DAISY
N-Not alone, though.

ARCHIVIST
(barely a whisper) No. No, not alone.

[MORE SILENCE.]
DAISY
Jon?

ARCHIVIST
(immediately) Still here.

DAISY
Good, I - (swallows) Good. I- I- I- I want to talk.

ARCHIVIST
Okay, um. What do you want to talk about?

DAISY
D - I, I don’t care, I- I- I just, I just want someone to hear me.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I’m not going anywhere.

[DAISY’S BREATHING APPROACHES A PANICKED LAUGH, AND SHE’S NOT ABLE TO GET OUT MORE THAN A FEW SYLLABLES.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Daisy?

DAISY
I, I want to, but it’s - difficult.

ARCHIVIST
Would it help if I - a-ask?

DAISY
Y-Yeah, yes, alright. Do your… thing.

ARCHIVIST
(pain) Right. (he clears his throat) Uh…

[HIS TRADEMARK STATIC BEGINS TO BUILD.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
How are you feeling?

DAISY
Scared. I, I’m, I’m, s-scared. I’ve been scared the whole time here. Not just when it- when it’s - cr-crushing, w-when it f-fills your - your mouth with- with di-dirt. (pause)

It knows when to stop. W-When to e-ease back, so you don’t - don’t lose it, or grow numb. L-Leaves you terrified for when it s-starts again, and when it does, y-you’re, you’re s-scared it’ll - (sniff) never - never stop.

(on the brink of crying) I thought- thought I’d (breath) I’d ne-never see the sky again, never - (close to breaking) never s-see Basira - (she composes herself)

But - But - But now - you - you’ve got out of, of, of other stuff like this; maybe, maybe you’ll get out of this, and, and then take me with you. (heavy breathing) But I don’t know what I’ll be out, outside. (pause)

The-The Hunt, it can’t reach me here. I’m s-scared, but - mm - (straining sound) But I - I feel more - feel more me… than I have for years. Maybe all my life. The Hunt was me - (strain) But I don’t - I don’t think I liked it. I think it just made me - need it. (strain) I hurt. A lot of people. And some who - who I shouldn’t have. (effort)

Did you ever hear the story Elias told me? About what I - did. How I am. He - He didn’t get a detail wrong. The Hunt. Hunger was in me all my life. Telling me who to chase. How to hurt them. (heavy breathing) I never needed to think. Who I was outside of that.

But down here, where I-I can’t hear the - blood, anymore. I, I don’t - I don’t know who I am without, without the chase. I just know that I - I don’t like who I was, back outside. I don’t want to be her again. I want - to be - better. (breathing) Mmm - (more breathing)

Y-You know what I thought, when I woke up here? I thought this was hell. I wa- I was dead, and I was in hell. And I - (sob) I knew I deserved it. (strain)

I don’t want t-to b,be a s-sadistic predator again. I-I don’t want to hobble around like some - pathetic wounded prey here. I don’t know which would be worse. But I’m sc-scared now. That I won’t ever get the choice.

ARCHIVIST
(pain) One thing I’ve learned, Daisy, is that we all get a choice. Even if it doesn’t feel like one.

[PAUSE.]
DAISY
I was gonna kill you. You know that, right?

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS, AS MUCH AS HE CAN, CURRENT SITUATION CONSIDERED.]
ARCHIVIST
I mean, I definitely got that impression when you (pain) dragged me into the woods for an execution.

[ANOTHER SOUND OF PAIN.]
DAISY
No. (heh) No. After the mission. I was planning to kill you.

ARCHIVIST
I… I did not know that.

DAISY
I realized - you were in my dreams. R-R-Reliving - this. T-The coffin. You were there.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

DAISY
Didn’t think it was real. Not really. Just my mind putting you there, because I hated you, but no. One night, you turn up in a new shirt. Didn’t fit you. Not your style.

(shaky breath) I-I didn’t think much of it, just a-a dream. Then you come back from the States, and guess what you’re wearing.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

DAISY
(overlapping) Realized what was happening then. Realized you weren’t human. Needed to die, as soon as it was safe. Never mind Elias, and his… insurance.

ARCHIVIST
And now?

DAISY
Don’t know. I- I miss dreaming. You don’t sleep, down here.

ARCHIVIST
Daisy - you should know, I-I’m -

(he chooses his words carefully)

I-If I wasn’t human before, I’m, uh - I’m even less now.

[IN THE BACKGROUND, THE RUMBLING SOUND OF THE BURIED IS DRIVING BACK UP IN FULL FORCE.]
DAISY
Yeah. Well. At the moment, I don’t care.

ARCHIVIST
And if we get out?

DAISY
But we can’t get out.

ARCHIVIST
No.

[THE ARCHIVIST CRIES OUT AGAIN AS THE WRATH OF THE BURIED COMES BACK FULL FORCE. DAISY DOES NOT YELL, BUT HER BREATHS GET EVEN MORE LABOURED, AND SHE STRAINS OUT A FEW SYLLABLES.]
DAISY
I’m s - I’m sorry. I’m sorry, Jon. I’m sorry.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A BREATH OF SURPRISE.]
ARCHIVIST
D-Daisy!

DAISY
Uh - I’m, I’m here.

ARCHIVIST
I- I can-

[THE ARCHIVIST’S OWN STATIC BEGINS TO RISE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
It’s - It - It’s closer.

DAISY
What is?

ARCHIVIST
M-My, My, My anchor, my - the, oh,

[THE BASS (STATIC) DROPS IN.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
a rib; I can f - I can feel - I know the way.

[VARIOUS GASPING NOISES THAT MAY ALSO BE ‘WH-‘S FROM DAISY. THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS TO MOVE.]
DAISY
W-What? H-How?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - (strain) It’s like - (strain) My mind link is - stronger.

[MORE STRAINING AND GRUNTING AS THEY MOVE. THE STATIC GROWS LOUDER, HEAVIER.]
DAISY
(breathing heavy) Slow down. I-I can’t -

ARCHIVIST
Don’t let go. (effort) Come on. We’re close. This way.

[THEY CONTINUE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Here, come on - push!

[THEY BOTH GROAN LOUDLY AS THEY HEAVE AGAINST THE COFFIN LID, PUSHING IT OPEN. AS THEY DO, AND THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS IN RELIEF? CONTENTMENT? NUMEROUS VOICES OVERLAP IN THE BACKGROUND, SEEMINGLY ALL TALKING AT ONCE, SPEAKING OVER EACH OTHER AS IF THEY’RE IN A VERY LARGE CROWD.]
DAISY
Wh - We’re out! We’re really out! I can’t believe-

ARCHIVIST
Umm…

DAISY
What? What is it?

ARCHIVIST
Tape recorders. [Good lord,] must be dozens of them.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
BASIRA
Jon, you stupid idiot! What did you think?

DAISY
(soft) Hi.

BASIRA
Oh my god.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
DAISY
You sure?

ARCHIVIST
(surprised) No, uh, it’s, um - it’s fine.

DAISY
It’s just - Basira’s busy.

ARCHIVIST
No, I-I understand. Ho-Honestly, uh, I’d actually appreciate your insight, uh, for this one. Just - you know. Keep quiet during the statement and all that.

DAISY
Sure. I-I can do quiet.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Uh, oh - do you want a chair?

DAISY
No.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Okay.

DAISY
(attempt to explain) I’m trying to get my legs right again.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, (duh) Of course.

DAISY
Just ignore me. I’ll stand in the corner.

ARCHIVIST
(inhale, I guess?) O…kay then. Statement of… (clears throat)

Statement of Percy Fawcett regarding his final expedition into the Amazon. Original statement given June 27th, 1930. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Tell nobody I am alive. I cannot be clear enough on that point. Do not try to find me after I have left. Please. All I ask is that I be allowed to live what life I have remaining in obscurity and anonymity.

I will not allow myself to be found.

Perhaps you will have read reports of my disappearance or death, constructing wild theories of violence at the hands of Kalapolos tribesmen, or a lack of adequate supplies or preparation. I can only wish my hubris had been so mundane.

I was hunting once again for the lost city of Z. I have dreamed of it for decades, ever since I read da Silva’s account of his own discovery in 1753.

The ancient ruins, the statues, hieroglyphics. The sheer unrivaled beauty of it all. Through the trenches and the mud, the Western front, it was the thought of Z that kept me going, whispered promises of discovery. The remains of an ancient city, utterly lost to time and hidden somewhere near the Xingu River.

My first expedition was alone, save for a handful of indigenous guides. I believed myself prepared, but the realities of that jungle were more than I could have foreseen, and when it finally ended, my fever-addled mind named that spot, the furthest we could reach into the jungle, ‘Dead Horse Camp,’ because that is where my horse finally fell.

I retreated in defeat, resolved to return to Dead Horse Camp at a time when I was truly ready. That time was five years later, in 1925, and I honestly believed that this time I was going to find Z. I was more prepared, and crucially, I planned not to go alone.

The Xavante, whose territory we were entering, were said to be violent and distrustful, making a large expedition unwise, so I instead brought my son Jack on board, as he had been traveling with me before, and I trusted his instincts almost as much as I trusted my own.

He, in turn, requested I include one other on the journey, a long-time friend and confidant of his: a man named Raleigh Rimmell.

I never liked the look of Raleigh. He was tall, and his features, though any one of them might have been called handsome, were badly put together on his face, giving him an appearance I’ll admit I took against at our first meeting. More than that, he had also read Manuscript 512, and I could see in his eyes the same fervor to find the city of Z as I sometimes glanced in my own.

Although there was something else there as well, behind them. Something darker, that I did not recognize, and I am hesitant to consider it too deeply even now. But Jack saw fit to invite him, and I had never before had cause to second-guess Jack’s judgement in such things.

It was Raleigh that suggested that we proceed alone after we left Dead Horse Camp. I had ensured this time we would be well-provisioned. We had horses, dogs, mules, and a pair of local labourers, who had agreed to act as our guides. But on our arrival at the camp, Raleigh dismissed them, and started to move all of our supplies onto only a few of the animals.

He told us we would have to be quick if we were to find what we sought, and we couldn’t do that with a trail of animals behind us.

He used that word a lot, ‘quick.’ I tried to explain to him that a methodical search would be more effective, but he just continued to mutter it. Eventually I relented. Much as I was going to dislike Raleigh as a person, he raised (sigh) several good points about our chances of avoiding any sort of confrontation with the Xavante, and Jack was quick to voice his support.

So it was that at the death of May, myself, Jack, and Raleigh set off deeper into the jungle. Alone.

That night the mosquitos were out in force, thick with fever, and hungry for our blood. I did my best to simply ignore them, safe as I was in my net. But over in Raleigh’s tent I kept hearing a sporadic thumping, clapping sound, as if he were killing them with his bare hands. When I asked him about it the next day, he simply told me he had inside him a strong and enduring hatred of bloodsuckers.

Jack nodded, as if the statement were in some way profound, but I didn’t know what to say to it.

That was the day we found the stone. Half buried, worn almost completely smooth by time and exposure, but still clearly covered in those same hieroglyphics as I had seen in da Silva’s manuscript.

I was overjoyed, almost to the point of weeping: I had been right.

Jack clapped me on the back and started making some sketches of the symbols. Raleigh was silent, staring at our discovery with a look I’d never seen before. He didn’t blink for almost two minutes. Then, he gradually, painstakingly, lowered his head until his face was right next to the rough stone surface. He took several long breaths, as if sniffing the thing. And then I thought I saw his tongue shoot out, just for a moment, and taste the air around it.

Without a word, he took off into the jungle at a dead run. Myself and Jack, startled for a moment, quickly followed. Raleigh was quick, but the uneven jungle floor and terrain made moving difficult, so we were able to keep him in sight until he stopped short.

I caught up with him, breathless from exhaustion, and asked him what in God’s name he thought he was doing.

“We’re close,” he said. “I can smell it. I won’t let it get away again.”

I told him I didn’t understand, that we were looking for a ruined city, that it couldn’t get away. But Raleigh just repeated himself: “I can smell it,” and to my dismay, I could see Jack nodding along.

This was where things started to turn, and my memory begins to fragment. I kept a journal, but the entries… were sporadic. And shaky.

The dates no longer make sense; at some point I realized that there were no animals around us anymore, that the Amazon had become strangely quiet. But I don’t know whether this was before or after I found the pile of dead birds in Raleigh’s tent. It must have been before, but my journal is not clear on the matter. What I do know is that we kept going deeper, and deeper, into the jungle. Jack had taken over the compass and sextant by that point, and I had little idea where we were actually going

Raleigh no longer slept, of this I was sure, and the inconvenience of setting up camp was clearly starting to grate on him.

I no longer had any fear of meeting the Xavante, as I somehow knew that, wherever we were, it was no longer in territory they would want to claim.

There were other animals, now. I could never get more than a glimpse. But they were not the birds, or the mule, or any of Raleigh’s other victims. They were far too sharp for that.

And they were definitely following us.

When we met the second expedition, it seemed like I was the only one surprised. There were almost a dozen of them, fitted with cold-weather outfits and ice-breaking equipment, and they seemed to take no heed of the thick, humid heat of the jungle. They greeted us like old friends, and Raleigh began to ask them what they had found, how their search was going, how many had made it.

I tried to say a few words, but by this point I was so disorientated, so out of step with whatever path the expedition was treading, that even if they could hear me, it was clear they had no intention of listening. The leader of the second expedition, a man in a thick seal-skin coat, was talking excitedly about their progress, about their hunt for the Northwest Passage, and I realized with a start that this man was John Franklin, famed polar explorer, whose ships, the Terror and the Erebus, had been trapped in the ice and lost in northern Canada. The crews had disappeared, and many believed that they had resorted to cannibalism.

Of course, that seemed far less of a concern to me at that moment, from the fact that John Franklin’s expedition had taken place almost a hundred years previous.

There was no way these people could be real, no way they could be here. But they were solid enough, and the gleam and obsession in their eyes matched Raleigh’s exactly. Jack looked on in awe at both of them.

We were briefly fourteen people, but then the things that had been following us attacked in the night. I awoke to screams and gunfire, the scents of blood and death. Something more cunning than a jaguar tore through my tent, teeth eager to find my throat. And it was only my paranoia, at the other members of the expanded expedition, that had kept my revolver close enough that I survived the struggle.

When it was over and the beasts were dead or driven off, I heard a sound that chilled me more than the vicious screams of the predators: The blood-drunk cheering of the survivors, a sound of triumph, elation, and cruelty. There were six of us left, and I reloaded my pistol before I returned to my bed.

The world was changing with every day we marched forward, feverishly hunting for a destination I was no longer sure of.

Raleigh hadn’t mentioned the city of Z for days, and Franklin at no point indicated any destination other than the Northwest Passage, though he walked through the heart of Brazil.

And now the very trees seemed to be fleeing us, branches and trunks bending away as we passed, save for those that sharpened themselves and stretched towards us. There were things moving through the trees now that looked at first like men, but they did not move like them. Their mouths never opened, but I knew there was something dreadful about them.

There was a grotesque absurdism to it all, and I sometimes thought I might burst out laughing, though I knew it would quickly change to sobbing, and I would be exposed. I had felt my safest option was to feign that same obsession that gripped Raleigh, that had taken my son. Though they both seemed to have a clearer idea of exactly what was going on, they didn’t question me too closely as long as I seemed to share it.

For all my navigational and cartographic skill, I had not the faintest idea where we were. At times, the position of the sun cast doubt on even the continent through which we traveled. We found Eduard von Toll a few days later. I recognized him immediately, as he had always been an inspiration of mine, right up until he and his ship, the Zarya, had vanished while hunting for the mysterious polar island Zemlya Sannikova. Now, he and his crew were pinning the things that looked like men to trees, with long, iron spikes. They thrashed, and struggled, and a long, bulbous tongue hung from their throats, pinned by the iron of von Toll’s men.

“I cannot stand bloodsuckers,” Raleigh said approvingly, as he conversed quietly with Baron von Toll in French.

Two of the figures pinned to the trees screamed in pain. They had no tongue, no distended belly filled with stolen blood. But no one seemed to notice, or if they did notice, no one cared. In the joy of the hunt, they had been seized. And that was that.

And so the expedition began again, with no sign of progress or clear destination, only the pure focus and wild excitement to find… It. Whatever ‘It’ was, wherever ‘It’ might be, they would not stop, would never stop until It was found and taken.

Our supplies had run out days ago, and it was becoming clear that zeal will only sustain you so far, as one or two of the group began to falter and fall from exhaustion and hunger. They were simply left behind.

The most painful part was Jack, who would spend hours walking beside me, telling me of all the wonders we would see, all the delights we would be part of, when we finally found It. Or caught It. Or killed It. Whatever It might have been. Broke my heart to see what I had done to him, to know where my path had set him.

When I finally felt my own body give out, it was a relief almost too acute to describe. I fell, and they left me behind.

I awoke back in Dead Horse Camp. Some of the Kalabolos had found me collapsed in the forest and had taken pity on me. I won’t bore you with the details of my fevers and suffering, save to say that the shell-shock I received in the Great War was nothing to what I went through after my return.

I have been careful, though. Nobody knows I am alive, and I desperately wish to keep it that way. I am sure, deep within myself, that what Raleigh Rimmell hunted deep within that jungle he will never find. He can never find.

What those people pursued, what I pursued, doesn’t exist, and I dearly hope that no others will ever suffer for our obsession. The sooner the world forgets them, forgets me, the better. I just wish I hadn’t lost my son to learn that lesson.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(pause, deep breath) What d’you make of that, then?

DAISY
Dunno. Why?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, well.. you’re uh, you’re a Hunter, right? Won’t -

[DAISY GROWLS A SIGH OVER HIS WORDS.]
ARCHIVIST
I - just wondered. I’ve been looking for evidence of a, a Hunt ritual. To see if it was one of the rituals Gertrude stopped. And this is the closest thing I’ve been able to find.

DAISY
Could’ve been one. I think.

ARCHIVIST
But it didn’t work. I don’t even know how it was meant to work.

DAISY
No.

ARCHIVIST
But why? There was no outside interference, no other powers; even the indigenous tribes who could have theoretically derailed it seem to say away. So why didn’t it work?

DAISY
I don’t - think it was about that.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure I understand.

DAISY
Just a feeling. When I was - (struggles for words) You know what my least favorite part of a case was?

ARCHIVIST
Police brutality lawsuit?

DAISY
(exasperated laugh-sigh) Arresting them. I hated the handcuffs, the, the click. It meant the chase was done, the hunt was over. Satisfying, on a good day, sure, but moreish. I never really wanted it to be over.

ARCHIVIST
Hm. (inhale) You don’t think the Hunt would let its ritual end. You don’t think it would let them find the - culmination.

DAISY
Don’t know. Maybe? Sometimes I lost purpose because I let myself get too into it. Gave them openings just because I wanted to keep chasing. Like with you.

[THE ARCHIVIST HMS.]
DAISY
Sometimes (sigh) it meant I lost them.

ARCHIVIST
Uh, one of the bits I’ve managed to decode from Gertrude’s notes - it references something she calls the, uh, the Everchase. As he speaks, Daisy’s breathing becomes a bit heavier in the background.

ARCHIVIST
You think that might be it, the, the ritual that never ends, because the Hunt’s all in the pursuit.

DAISY
I-I don’t know. You’re the expert.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) No, no. I-I-I like it; it’s a, it’s a good theory.

DAISY
Basira said you could just - know all this now, anyway.

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Yeah, it’s - I-I can’t really control it.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh.

BASIRA
(surprised) Hey. There you are. You’re meant to be doing your exercises.

DAISY
You were out.

BASIRA
You could have done them alone.

[A SLIGHT PAUSE.]
DAISY
Sure.

ARCHIVIST
Everything alright?

BASIRA
Yeah - Daisy, could you give us a minute?

DAISY
Oh. (slight pause) Should I -?

BASIRA
Yeah, please.

[A SOFT SIGH FROM DAISY.]
DAISY
Sure.

[SHE LEAVES, CLOSING THE DOOR BEHIND HER.]
ARCHIVIST
Are - Are you…?

BASIRA
Jon, is that her?

ARCHIVIST
What?

BASIRA
You’ve had people switch before, right? Replaced.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, s-sure, but-

BASIRA
How sure are you that’s the real Daisy?

ARCHIVIST
Uh - I, I, I’m sure, Basira; tha-that’s her.

BASIRA
But do you - (slight pause) Do you know?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Yes. Why?

BASIRA
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
Talk to me Basira; is she - wrong in some way?

BASIRA
No. No, she still sounds like her. Says things Daisy would say, laughs like her. She just seems… lost.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
I want it to be her.

ARCHIVIST
Do you?

BASIRA
[‘S] that’s supposed to mean?

ARCHIVIST
(sighs) She’s.. trying to keep a clear head. Stay away from the Hunt as much as possible. You.. valued her purpose. Her resolve.

(slight pause) The sort of things…

BASIRA
(stop talking) I get it. It’s her.

[BEAT.]
ARCHIVIST
We’ve all changed, Basira.

BASIRA
Yeah, I just - I didn’t realize she’d change into someone who can’t look after herself. (inhale) Even without the muscle atrophy.

ARCHIVIST
You were hoping for a defender.

BASIRA
I was hoping for someone I can trust to share the load. Because right now, it’s all on me.

ARCHIVIST
(inhale, Basira) It doesn’t have to be.

BASIRA
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
You’re not happy she’s back.

BASIRA
I didn’t say that, Jon. I will never abandon Daisy, and.. having her back is… (she sighs) But right now she’s dead weight, and I need to be able to travel light.

ARCHIVIST
You’re starting to sound like Gertrude.

BASIRA
Good. Far as I can see, Gertrude Robinson was the most effective person in this place.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
That’s what Tim said as well.

(pause) Look, I’ve been where you are.

BASIRA
Have you?

ARCHIVIST
(with vigor) Yes, I have. You’re the only one responsible for everyone, the weight of all their lives on your shoulders - it leads to bad decisions.

BASIRA
Yeah, well, when I get myself kidnapped three times in a row, maybe I’ll look to you for advice.

ARCHIVIST
Bad decisions, like wasting three weeks chasing dead-ends and false leads rather than talking to us about the plan.

BASIRA
I told you not to look in my head.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t. This one’s just me. You’ve not mentioned anything about where you were, avoided talking about what you might have learned, and that file that you were studying clippings from - empty.

BASIRA
Maybe I found something and I’m not sharing.

ARCHIVIST
You didn’t though, did you?

BASIRA
I had good intelligence.

ARCHIVIST
Which you charged off to investigate without telling anyone. You know who that reminds me of?

BASIRA
(inhale) Drop it.

ARCHIVIST
(…sigh) Fine. I don’t care if you trust me, but I think I’ve proven at the very least that I am useful. So use me.

(inhale) Because if you go it alone, you are going to die. Even Gertrude worked with people. We make bad decisions when we don’t communicate.

[BASIRA SIGHS AT HIS LAST WORDS, LOUDLY AND HEAVILY.]
BASIRA
You literally jumped into a spooky coffin without telling anybody.

ARCHIVIST
(…) Case in point.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
(sigh) Okay.

ARCHIVIST
And give Daisy a break. She was there eight months. (breath) I was only in there for three days, and-

BASIRA
Yeah, I know. I just…

ARCHIVIST
What?

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
BASIRA
Nothing. I’ve got work to do.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS DEEPLY AS BASIRA LEAVES THE ROOM, DOOR OPENING AND CLOSING WITH HER.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. ????]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
MARTIN
Right. (inhale) Martin Blackwood, archi -

[HE STOPS. SIGHS.]
Assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute. Recording number 0060122. Statement of Adelard Dekker,

[HE SEEMS TO FALTER, SLIGHTLY, WHEN HE SAYS THE NAME - RECOGNITION?]
taken from a letter to Gertrude Robinson, dated 22nd January, 2006.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
Gertrude. Sorry I can’t be there in person to go over all this with you. I - still have a few things to clear up over here.

But I thought it would be best to let you know as soon as possible. I am now certain my theory is correct. There is something new emerging. A fifteenth Power.

I didn’t want to believe it either, not at first, but I was alerted a few months ago to the case of a woman named Bernadette Delcour. She works at the Faculté de Théologie, in the University of Lyon, and is an expert in eschatology, specifically failed apocalypse predictions. She had an encounter I believe is directly connected to the new emergence, and I managed to track her down. She was reluctant to talk, though I eventually managed to get the story out of her.

Bernadette had, apparently, received a call from a colleague in Paris about a discovery regarding Garland Hillier. Now, Hillier was a member of the Millerite movement, in upstate New York during the early 1840s. I don’t know how familiar you are with the Millerites, but they would eventually grow into the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

They followed a preacher named William Miller, who believed he had calculated exactly when the end of days was coming, and pinned it down to October 22nd, 1844.

Now, Gertrude, I’m sure you’ll have noticed that date came and went without any sign of Jesus returning, and Miller’s followers noticed the very same thing, calling it “The Great Disappointment.” Most of his followers stuck with him, and gradually turned into the Seventh-day Adventists, but Garland Hillier apparently took it harder than most, abandoning the movement and returning to his native France the following year.

He spent the next twenty years publishing widely derided collections of poetry, as well as essays on belief and atheism that were roundly ignored by the philosophical salons of the time. He was supported by several literary friends, as he was reputedly a gifted editor, even if his own work was all but incomprehensible. Garland Hillier’s final essay, published in 1867, and simply titled L’Avenir, “The Future,” was supposedly a rambling and meandering speculation on the end of the human race, influenced by Darwin’s recent publication of The Origin of the Species, and his own shattered faith.

He posited a future where, far from any glorious or holy revelation or reckoning, a decadent and corrupt humanity was violently and utterly supplanted, and wiped out by a new category of being. One he referred to as “Les héritiers.” The Inheritors.

He gave no details on how he believed they might look like, or how they might behave, but his predictions for the final days of humanity were unpleasant and visceral.

The piece was not popular, or widely distributed at the time, and has, for the most part, gone utterly forgotten by history. I’ve been unable to find any accessible copy myself, and have had to rely largely on Professor Delcour’s recollections of its contents, as she has the dubious distinction of being one of the few academics familiar with Hillier’s work.

Anyway, the point is that sometime after that essay was published, Garland Hillier disappeared. Exactly when this happened, no one is really sure, but the last records of his existence can be found near the end of 1867. No contemporaries commented on his disappearance, nor was there any search inquiry. But neither is there any record of his death or indication of emigration or travel.

Despite his dubious academic credentials, he was apparently a man who consistently attempted to court the public eye, and his disappearance has long been a puzzlement, if not a full-blown mystery, in certain academic circles for a long time.

So it’s probably not surprising that when Bernadette got a call from Paris telling her that some workman had discovered Garland Hillier’s apartment, it got her on a train almost immediately.

And it certainly was a discovery, in the most literal sense. On the fifth floor of an apartment building on the Rue Lagarde, near the Panthéon, some construction workers had uncovered a door, that at some point in the past had been completely plastered over. Removing the covering and breaking through the old wood revealed another apartment, one apparently unnoticed by any of the other residents, or, indeed, the owner of those sections of the building, each of which had assumed the space was owned by one of the others, and connected to a different path.

As far as anyone was able to determine, the apartment had been sitting there, sealed and undisturbed, for almost a hundred and fifty years. It was untouched. Pristine. With barely a thin layer of fine dust coating the possessions and belongings that had stayed there for so long. A few objects identified the place as belonging to Hillier, including a short journal, and so the local authority, baffled as to what to do with this find, had called a history professor from the Sorbonne, who had passed it off to Bernadette, as she was one of the few academics familiar with Hillier.

She went immediately. While the confusion over legal ownership would probably keep the place in limbo for some time, Bernadette was also acutely aware that it meant there would be limited protections in place as well, and she was keen to see it before anything too drastic happened to it.

She got her wish, and her colleague even managed to supply her with a photocopy of the journal, though it made little real sense. It talked of Garland Hillier’s ‘new revelation,’ about the absolute change of the world in terms that seemed at first elegiac, but later seemed - almost panicked, with the final entry simply repeating the words “La porte est la porte.”

The door is the door.

Clearly his mental state had been in decline, and Bernadette said she could not help dwelling on the image of this poor man, his whole world shifting and falling away from him, lost and alone in his tiny apartment, gradually losing himself until at last, he lay down, and simply did not get up again.

But that couldn’t be the case, she knew, as there had been no sign of a body.

Bernadette arrived, and got into the building without any trouble, save for the five flights of stairs that needed to be climbed, and found the door unlocked. Monsieur Pinard, who had been supposed to meet her there, was apparently nowhere to be found, so she simply let herself in.

The place felt strange, she told me. Like a tiny pocket of another time. A bubble, where the world had never changed. And stepping inside she almost felt like she would never change, either. Even the light that came through the window seemed to be of a different quality, muted, and gentle. The street chatter of Paris, which usually reaches all but the most remote of windows seemed to vanish entirely. There was a sense of peace to it all, shot through with a strand of disquiet, a wrongness she told me she could not identify, but she could almost smell it.

The objects left within the room itself were, unfortunately, somewhat disappointing. While the clothes and household objects were in a remarkable state of preservation, none gave any insight into the life or fate of Garland Hillier. The bed was unmade, but seemed to hold no clues, and aside from the journal, there were no papers in the place that gave any useful information, save for a few letters from Hachette and the like, declining to print his essays.

All in all, Bernadette described it as intensely disappointing, at least from her perspective, since the only aspect that served to shed any further light on Hillier - his theology or his fate - seemed to be the journal, something she hadn’t needed to spend an hour and a half on the train to get to.

She turned to leave, and that, she says, is when she started to get the sense that something was wrong.

The door had been damaged by the builders who uncovered the place, and there were several distinct gaps in the wood, but as she walked back out, the door appeared to be whole.

She ignored it, and left anyways, trying to reason it all as a strange quirk of memory. Just “one of those things.”

Unfortunately for her, it was not the only thing that had changed. The walls of the stairwell were discolored, as though covered with a dusting of some - yellowish dirt, and the stone steps were ever so slightly sticky beneath her shoes.

There was no sound, no sign of life other than the squeaking of leather as she descended, trying desperately to convince herself that nothing was wrong. That it had been just as quiet on the way up. That this building had always had a thick, humid feeling to the air.

When she stepped outside into the street of corpses, that was when her mind could no longer deny that she was not in any Paris that she knew, no matter what the architecture might have looked like.

There were hundreds of them, stood in place where they had died. Some fallen, a few kneeling. They were stiff, and desiccated, mummified by some process Bernadette could not begin to guess at, but that rendered their flesh like tightly packed ash. At least that’s what it looked like, as she dared not touch them. Those that had fallen seemed to have f-fused with the street, and some of it seemed to have been too close to nearby walls, were embedded within them.

Every single shriveled ashened face was contorted in a scream of agony, every sharp and jutting jaw cracked and twisted in an expression of horror. Of understanding not just of their death, but the end of everything they knew. It was clear that they had been this way for years, if not decades.

Bernadette says she was sure nothing had moved in that dead city for a hundred years. She was mistaken.

I have never envied you your position, Gertrude. I have never coveted your gifts, as I know the terrible costs that come with them. But honestly, trying to get a description of these… things, these… Inheritors from Bernadette Delcour made me wish I could just pull the image from her lips, like you would have been able to. In the end, she would say nothing of them, except that “there is nothing done in the history of humanity that deserves the things that come after us.”

She was more precise on her escape. Remembering Hillier’s words about the door, she had just enough time to retreat back to the apartment and barricade herself inside. Then, she waited until the entrance changed again, and she could emerge back into the world she remembered.

At least - that’s my interpretation of events. She was rather agitated by this point in the accounts, so - I believed it best to leave her to it. I may try to interview her again, later, though I have my suspicions she may find herself disappearing. She has that quality about her; I’m sure you know what I mean. O-of an unfinished meal. And I can only hope that when the second course starts, she can find her way back to Garland Hillier’s apartment once more. But of course the evidence suggests that, in the end, even he wasn’t able to.

Now, I know what you’re going to say, Gertrude. Odd doors are a sign of the Spiral; empty worlds tend towards the Lonely; and eschatology is almost literally the study of the End.

But this is different. I feel it. This fear is new. This is a fear of extinction. Of change. It used to be part of the End, perhaps; when the end of humanity was to be the end of all things. But now - th-the fear is not of a rapture or a revelation. It is of catastrophic change. A change in our world that will wipe out what it means to be us, and leave something else in its place.

Mankind will warp the world so much it kills us all, and leaves only a thousand years of plastic behind. Technology will strip us of what it means to be human, and leave us something alien and cold. We will press a button that in a moment will destroy everything we have ever been. Animals are witnessing the end of their entire species within a single generation. These are new fears, Gertrude, and a new power is rising to consume them. The Extinction. The Terrible Change. The Future-Without-Us.

I know you don’t credit my theories, and I’m sure you’ll have plenty to say on this one, but I’m going to need your help with this at some point, I’m sure of it. I don’t know how you can stop the birth of something that has no life, or mind, or… substance, but if anyone can figure it out, it’s you. I’ve never met anyone so gifted at understanding that- strange dream-logic of the fears, and if what I suspect about this new power is true, it could be catastrophic.

Until then, (inhale) I’ll keep searching for evidence, (sigh) trying to find instances and manifestations of the Extinction.

I’ll keep you updated. Stay safe. Adelard.

[MARTIN SIGHS, STATEMENT OVER. IMMEDIATELY, FROM THE DISTANCE, THE SIGNATURE STATIC OF PETER LUKAS ROARS IN.]
MARTIN
So that’s it, is it?

PETER
It is.

[A COUPLE OF FOOTFALLS IN THE DISTANCE COMING CLOSER - IT SEEMS THAT PETER CAN INDEED WALK ON HIS OWN TWO FEET.]
MARTIN
A new power.

PETER
The Extinction, yes.

MARTIN
So - (sigh) - so what, you’re afraid of [the] competition?

PETER
Not at all. Honestly, that’s the sort of thing I normally relish; I’ve always been a little bit of a gambler, and the higher the stakes the better.

MARTIN
So - So this is, what?

PETER
This is different.

MARTIN
(sigh, okay.) I’m listening.

PETER
Good. It’s about time.

[MARTIN EXHALES.]
PETER
There are two powers that, to my knowledge, have never attempted to fully manifest. Never had followers set them up for a ritual. Mother of Puppets, and Terminus. The Web and the End.

The Web, I’ve never really been sure about. If I were to guess, I would say it actually prefers the world as is: playing everyone against each other. And so on.

The End, on the other hand… The End doesn’t really need one. It knows that it gets everything eventually, so why bother? The End manifesting would not be a new world of terror; it would be a lifeless world. Devoid of everything.

MARTIN
Including fear.

PETER
Exactly. It has no reason to truly attempt to enter our world; it’s - passive. But the Extinction… The Extinction is… different. It’s - active; it will seek to create a lifeless world, in a way that none of the other powers ever would. Some interpretations suggest it might replace us with something new - that can then fear annihilation in turn.

But I, and those like me, would rather that did not happen.

MARTIN
S-S-so, what, you want to - stop it being - born?

PETER
I don’t know if such a thing is even possible, but if it is, then yes. Or at the very least weaken it.

MARTIN
Okay, m, okay, so - so let’s say - for now - that I believe you. Hypothetically. Wh-what does this have to do with me?

PETER
I’m still working out some of the kinks, but I believe I have a plan. However, it requires this place, and it requires someone touched by the Beholding. Elias was, perhaps unsurprisingly, unwilling to help.

MARTIN
(unamused) And you thought that since I’m so lonely already, I’d be ideal.

PETER
Yes!

MARTIN
You see - The thing is, Peter, I’m still not all that keen on being a part of any ritual you set up. You know - In fact, if I were to be blunt, I’d say that it would be suicidally stupid.

PETER
(patronizing) Martin. It’s going to be decades, if not centuries, before I get another chance to bring Forsaken into this world. (deep inhale) Your last Archivist saw to that. Honestly, if Elias hadn’t killed that woman, I’d have been very tempted. I warned him she was danger, but he was always -

MARTIN
(overlapping) Peter, Peter!

PETER
(low) Anyway. (normal) The point is that yes, obviously, if I last that long, I’m going to try again. But I’m rather keen for the world not to end in the meantime?

[MARTIN HMS, LETS OUT A LONG SIGH.]
PETER
Martin, this is what we agreed. After the Flesh attacked, you - came to me.

[MARTIN SIGHS AGAIN.]
PETER
And I’ve held up my end of the bargain, despite your continued hesitation. Your friends have been largely untroubled by the many, many enemies that they have made.

MARTIN
What about the delivery guy? Breekon. And the coffin!

PETER
Was that its name? To be honest with you, I thought it was dead.

MARTIN
You thought wrong.

PETER
True enough. And as soon as I learned it was here, I moved to intervene. But, well, it turns out I wasn’t really needed. And as far as the coffin goes, there’s not much I can do about a bull-headed Archivist -

[MARTIN LETS OUT AN ANNOYED SOUND.]
PETER
- who seems hell bent on self-destruction. My powers only extend so far.

MARTIN
(ya sure) Mhm.

PETER
(probably through gritted teeth behind that smile) Look. I’m not going to pressure you into doing anything you don’t want to. It won’t even work unless you’re willing to commit.

In any case, I have plenty of preparations to work on myself before it’s ready. I’ll see what else I can find to help with your reservations in the meantime, okay?

Just - don’t hesitate too long? We are on a deadline after all.

MARTIN
Fine.

PETER
Right. Then if you’ll excuse me, I have a family thing to get to.

MARTIN
Are we going to talk about Jon?

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
PETER
Do we need to?

MARTIN
I - wh, uh -

PETER
Because to be honest, I’m not entirely sure what’s been going on with him these past couple of weeks.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh, oh, yeah, (scoff) sure.

PETER
Martin. My patron - hopefully our patron, someday - doesn’t give me any sort of special insights. I’m not quite the accomplished voyeur that Elias was; I have to keep tabs on things the old-fashioned way.

MARTIN
What, turning invisible and eavesdropping?

PETER
If you like. But - I’m only one person, and I can’t keep an eye on everything.

MARTIN
Or - anything, apparently.

PETER
(long sigh, more grit) As I said, one of the last shreds of the Circus delivered a gateway into Too-Close-I-Cannot-Breathe. I went to help, but was too late. Then, your detective friend-

MARTIN
(overlapping) No, she’s not a de -

PETER
(ignoring) - left on one of Elias’s wild goose chases. Then Jon willfully hurled himself into the coffin. I did not intervene because thankfully, I did not agree to protect your friends from their own idiocy.

[MARTIN HUFFS.]
PETER
Though actually, he gave it more consideration than I thought he would.

MARTIN
He’s not a moron.

PETER
..If you say so. Regardless, he’s in there three days and then what do you know? He manages to pull himself out of the coffin like a grubby Jesus, and he even brings a penitant thief along, in the form of your pet murderer. Does this seem about right to you so far?

MARTIN
Yeah,

PETER
Now, from my point of view, so far, none of this has been any of my business. We have bigger concerns than this little soap opera you call an Archives.

[ARE-YOU-SERIOUS/EXCUSE ME? SOUND FROM MARTIN.]
PETER
What does - puzzle me though, and I mean that genuinely, is - why you were piling tape recorders onto the coffin while Jon was in there. (brief pause) It’s a question, Martin, it’s - it’s not an accusation.

MARTIN
I don’t know. And I just - felt like it might help. He’s always recording, and I thought it - it might help him… find his way out.

PETER
Interesting. Were you compelled?

MARTIN
I don’t know. Maybe? I-I, I definitely wanted to do it.

PETER
But?

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
MARTIN
I’m - I’m not sure where the idea came from.

PETER
You should watch out for that. Could be something dangerous.

MARTIN
Sure.

PETER
I can’t help but notice you’re recording right now?

MARTIN
It - was a statement, alright; that’s what we do.

PETER
Anyway. Point is, I’m not your captor or your torturer. I’m not going to tell you to stop talking to him, or even saving him if it comes to it. If that’s not a decision you’re willing to make yourself, me scolding you isn’t going to help.

[MARTIN SCOFFS: REALLY?]
PETER
You know what the stakes are now, and I just have to hope that you’re with me on this. Focusing on the big picture.

MARTIN
(resigned) Yeah.

PETER
Okay! Now, I really am running late, so if you don’t mind?

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Manuela Dominguez regarding her unconventional religious beliefs and their intersection with her project aboard the space station Daedalus. Original statement given July 14th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I come to you with a warning - and an offer.

When you read this, I would consider it a great favor if you could share my words with the head of your Institute. Tell him that Maxwell Rayner, Gertrude Robinson, Elias Bouchard, Basira Hussain, The Archivist sends his regards and offers - sanctuary.

A time of holy darkness is at hand, when the Eye will close forever, and in the spirit of the friendship they once shared, he offers an opportunity to surrender.

Forsake the Ceaseless Watcher, abandon your position, and you shall be spared in the blind world to come.

In this spirit of reconciliation, and to convince you of our sincerity, I offer my story, much as it may pain me to feed the sick voyeur that lurks in this place.

My parents… were very religious, fueled with a zealotry and zeal that only now I am beginning to truly understand. They believed in the immanence of Christ, descending and purging the Earth of all the inequities and sin that they saw in the world. I was brought up to believe in the light of God, his radiant, illuminating presence, and the promise that he was coming to banish the darkness forever.

It didn’t save them, of course, and when they lay there dying, I saw in their faces the fear that they had always denied, the confidence in their own salvation fading with each step closer to the end.

For a long time, I hoped that they had been right about their beliefs. I remembered in my heart that deep down they were vicious, spiteful people who used their faith to hurt others, and I fondly imagined them discovering themselves in an afterlife other than the one they had assumed as their destination.

But I no longer think of such things.

The core of their hatred was for anything they saw as… unnatural. For them, God’s creation was perfect, and all things in nature were right and proper according to his will.

Of course, there was little consistency in what they considered to be ‘natural,’ and it always seemed to fall along the lines of their own petty jealousies and pride. Anything they did not understand became unnatural, and I found myself crossing that line from an early age, although, strangely, out of everything I was, it was always my desire to pursue a scientific career that they railed against with the most energy.

I saw it as studying the natural world, learning how it worked, mapping it. They saw it as Devil-inspired pride, that tried to know and master forces that were rightfully beyond us.

Regardless, I broke with them as soon as I could, and only returned when they were dying.

Did I come to gloat? Maybe. Though more than that, I wanted to tell them of my own church, to spread the gospel that I had found, so they might die with the fear of darkness on their lips.

You see, I do not disagree with my parents’ thesis, that the true virtue of the world is in its natural state. But the natural state of the universe is darkness. Those rank, pompous balls of fire and light vomiting their radiation out into the nothing, they cannot stand against the overwhelming reality of it.

We talk about light and dark being opposites, but they are no more opposites than a gaudy paint is the opposite of the wall upon which is sits. Without light, there is darkness. But without darkness, there is nothing. We sit, upon our tiny spinning ball of dirt, desperately building our own tiny suns, our own illuminating shelters from the truth of existence, clustering around them like insects, never realizing that they rob us of the revelations that come… in the dark. That our wretched eyes bind us to this grotesque world in which we live.

“But Manuela,” they would say, “All life comes from light. The energy that sustains us is drawn from the Sun, from its warm, beautiful radiance.”

And I tell them to look again at ‘life,’ at the pain and suffering and misery that it brings with it. The nature that light gives us is corrupt and base, tearing itself into pieces, spinning to its own sick destruction. The life that is given to us by the stars, by the Sun, can barely sustain itself for a century.

Did you know that the oldest single thing on Earth given life by the light is the Great Basin bristlecone pine tree? Five thousand years, some of them have been alive. Five millennia. That’s it. That’s all. Even the longest lived of the Sun’s children can barely make it a few thousand years. Compare this to the uncountable eternity of darkness, stretching back far beyond when the sickness of an illuminated universe was thrown into existence.

If the words of my parents hold any truth, then God is the true monster, and “let there be light” the most evil words ever spoken.

It may come, then, as a little surprise, that my studies in physics led me towards dark matter and dark energy. My own theology was undeveloped back then, just the smallest of thoughts, tugging from the back of my mind, a thought experiment I was happy to occasionally indulge.

In many ways, my work back then was a betrayal of my principles, for what is research and study if not doing the work of the light, taking what is true and hidden and rendering it revealed and imperfect. Filtering it through a base and falsifying human mind as surely as the light warps the world around us.

In many ways I suppose my parents were right about it being unnatural. But it was my path to the truth, so I cannot bring myself to honestly regret it.

Dark energy. Dark matter. Dark radiation. The true holy trinity.

Almost the entirety of reality is made of them, shaped by them, moved by them, and yet they remain entirely impervious to the light.

They resist all attempts to measure and expose them, visible only in their effect upon the world, their nature guessed at, seeping through the holes in our knowledge of the cosmos.

All of those things that are believed to be ‘existence’ - matter, energy, radiation - all of them are utterly dwarfed by their dark counterparts. Which leads to an inevitable question: if the fundamental building blocks are so predominantly the dark parts, is it not the light-twisted versions of them that are the deviation, the pale reflection. Perhaps it should be matter and light mater.

But I did not come here to quibble over semantics. I came here to tell you my story, though it has perhaps become my sermon.

No matter. These thoughts, these feelings were always in my mind, and my work in physics only served to deepen them.

But it was not until I met Maxwell Rayner that I realized the deeper truth of it all. He spoke words I thought existed only in my heart, and I loved him as the soil loves the rain.

At first I thought his blindness was a gift, but he rebuked me for such thoughts. “Simply because one cannot feel the heat,” he told me, “does not mean their flesh does not burn. The light is more than simply the source of sight. It is the source of our entire venal half-existence.” And he was aware of it always.

Maxwell told me it is in our nature to fear the dark, and I could not disagree. For all my intellectual reverence of it, I could not deny that those few occasions I had found myself in full and proper darkness, my heart had trembled.

“And rightly so,” he said, “For are we not creatures born of the light, contemptible and corrupt? Surely then, this fear of confronting the pure nature of the universe is right and good. Surely this fear of the dark is the truest communion that humanity could ever hope for.”

And at his words I felt afraid, and my heart soared in terror and elation as my eyes brimmed with tears. For I knew he spoke the truth.

So we began to work together, to worship together in his church, the only church I’ve ever felt I truly belonged to. It was wonderful. And when he spoke to me of prophecy, of the movement of the heavens and the killing of the Sun, I knew I would do everything in my power to help him.

And I could. More than anyone else on Earth, he said, because of my expertise. That knowledge I had gained in defiance of the dark could finally be put to use. I was to create a focus, a black star, a new centerpoint around which a universe of purest darkness could turn. To take dark matter, dark energy, and harness it, bring it forward into a form that could be held, worshipped.

Scientifically, it was nonsense, of course. Dark energy and the like don’t work like that, not even remotely. But that wasn’t important. What mattered was that it felt like science, and that was all I needed; to do my work, to create the black star, would need a parody, an aping mockery of science. But it would also need the deepest of darknesses.

When I told Maxwell what I actually needed, he told me such a thing was impossible. But I insisted. And so he began his work on the Daedalus.

I don’t know how he convinced the Lukases and the Fairchilds to help finance the project. A life as long as his is evidently very good for one’s finances. But even so, space exploration is a whole other magnitude of expenditure.

I don’t entirely know if they were working on rituals of their own, or simply pushing the boundaries of their own fears, their masters. Either way, it was clear my two fellow astronauts were patsies, sent up there to suffer. I almost felt bad for them, but it was in most ways a relief to know I wouldn’t need to worry about them interfering with my own project.

Exactly how the launch was arranged, I couldn’t tell you, but I assume the calculations must have been done by one of ours. Otherwise, well, weight is very important when planning a launch, and it could hardly have escaped their notice that there were four people, in that rocket. Three astronauts, and one unlucky nyctophobe, sealed in a lightless box, silenced, but not sedated, apparently indistinguishable from the rest of the supplies.

I never learned his name, never needed to. He was simply a battery, a ready source of constant terror I could draw on for my experiments. However Maxwell had contrived to stop him screaming seemed most effective, and the closest I ever came to discovery was when Kilbride expressed confusion at the rate that the supplies were diminishing. It was really only the two of us, anyway, with Chilcott sealed away, having his own little breakdown, and Jan was always a bit of an idiot. So ready to believe anyone’s lies.

But I suppose I don’t need to tell you that, do I, Gertrude?

My experiments continued largely uninterrupted, pushing the boundaries of light, darkness, and fear. It was dangerous work, and more than once I got too close to the light, and it almost destroyed me.

But it didn’t.

I could regale you with the technical terms or scientific disciplines I played with and rendered meaningless, but in the end all you actually need to know is that I succeeded. A tiny, terrible sun of the pitchest black, shining beautiful darkness all around it.

By that time my colleagues had long since succumbed to the torments they were assigned, and I had no difficulty securing the Black Star securely, before pulling them onto the shuttle for the return journey.

And then the three of us returned to Earth. Just as well. The final experiment had left my battery in such a state that no amount of soundproofing could dampen the screams, and I was glad of the peace and quiet.

That’s all I really came here to say. To let you know that we had succeeded. And to make your boss an offer on behalf of Maxwell.

I suppose there is also an element of provocation here as well. Even with the loss of Darvish, we will still be victorious.

We have watched you, Gertrude. I suppose you’re used to that. But we know what you’re capable of. So consider this a challenge: I would love nothing more than to see you destroyed by the radiance of the dark sun we have created. So by all means do your worst.

Or prostrate yourself, both of you, before the Forever Blind, and perhaps you might be spared.

Maxwell and I await your decision with keen interest.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

(sigh, shaky breath) Well, that’s… concerning. I mean - the Sun’s still there, so I assume they failed. Unless they’re still waiting to attempt it. That’s not the sort of statement you give four years before you try to actually - (laugh turns into a sigh) Or is it?

The timeframes on these, uh, attempts, the-these rituals, well - (inhale) - they seem variable, to say the least.

When I try to think about it, uh -

[WE HEAR THE DEEP, LOW RUMBLING OF THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC AS HE ATTEMPTS ONE MORE TIME TO BEHOLD. HE MAKES A FEW NOISES OF PAIN THROUGHOUT THE EFFORT BEFORE GIVING UP.]
ARCHIVIST
(sigh) I - It’s just… darkness. Unhelpful, but… nothing expected. (sigh) I’ll keep digging. If there is another ritual upcoming, I’ll need all the information I can get on it. I can’t believe Gertrude didn’t have a plan for it.

I hope I’m just being overcautious, that it’s - already long since dealt with but - (sigh) We’ll see.

[SHORT PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
At least the coffin’s gone. I gave Artifact Storage some - very specific instructions, and they’ve got it solidly sealed away.

Is locking it up the right thing to do? There are other people in there. And Daisy and I got out, but…

No. (sigh) I - (sigh) I can’t think about that. Even if I could somehow be sure of recreating our escape, I, I can’t save everyone that’s been taken. I-It’s not my job to try, I - (inhale) I can’t spend another three days in there, I just - (pause) I need to let it go. (pause)

I don’t - like interacting with the rest of the Institute these days. The way they look at me, I - I don’t know. I don’t know what they’ve heard, what the rumors going around are, but - (long inhale) They’ve definitely heard something. (exhale) And they can’t wait until they don’t have to talk to me anymore.

Can’t honestly say I blame them; none of this is easy. (sigh) Everyone just trying to get through as best they can. Living one day at a time. (short pause, sigh) But I can’t afford to be just living one day at a time; I need - a plan. But I don’t even know what I’m trying to achieve. And no one… (sigh) No one wants to tell me.

Hm. (inhale)

End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[PAUSE.]
[INT. PRISON, VISITING ROOM]
ELIAS
Nice to see you again, Detective.

BASIRA
Still not a detective. Never was.

ELIAS
Oh, but everyone else seems to be getting a title these days,

[IN THE BACKGROUND WE HEAR THE SOUND OF THE DOOR BEING OPENED.]
ELIAS
ah, why shouldn’t you -

[BASIRA POUNDS ON - THE TABLE? THE WALL? THE DOOR? SOMETHING RATTLES.]
BASIRA
Cut the shit. What are you playing at?

ELIAS
I’m sure I don’t know what you mean.

BASIRA
Like hell you don’t. Every lead, a dead end. Every contact, vanished or dead. I spent three weeks bouncing all over the globe on your bad intel, because you said there was a way to bring Daisy back.

ELIAS
There was. (handcuffs rattle) It required you to be absent.

BASIRA
(sigh) You wanted him to go in there.

ELIAS
And you would never have allowed it, had you been present.

BASIRA
Why?

ELIAS
(cheek) Would you simply believe I wanted you and Daisy reunited?

BASIRA
No.

ELIAS
Fine. Consider it a test. Things are - coming, things that will require Jon to be far stronger and more willing to use his connection to his patron. His performance during the Unknowing was… disappointing. I needed a way to force him to harness his ability more acutely than he had before.

The coffin was a useful tool, Daisy an adequate bait.

BASIRA
Then you messed up. Way he tells it, he doesn’t know how he got out of there.

ELIAS
But he did. And his powers were no small part of it. Even if he required some assistance, they were what saved him. And he has still achieved what no one, mortal, monster, or anything in between, has ever been able to: He climbed out of the Buried.

[HANDCUFFS RATTLE.]
BASIRA
But what’s the point? You aren’t getting your ritual off from in here, so what do you need him for? (inhale) What’s so important you need him stronger?

ELIAS
I have been observing a recent increase in people and supplies being moved to the small town of Ny-Ålesund, in Svarlbard. An increase which I believe may be linked to a rather desperate attempt by the People’s Church of the Divine Host to perform a crude ritual of their own. To bring their… (inhale, rattle) Mr. Pitch into the world.

BASIRA
The People’s Church? But I thought -

ELIAS
You thought the final death of Maxwell Rayner might have sufficiently derailed them? Yes, that was my hope too, but alas it would seem not.

[VARIOUS RATTLES AS HE SPEAKS.]
BASIRA
Maxwell… You. You called in that tip, sent us out to their warehouse.

ELIAS
And now I’m sending you out again.

BASIRA
(sigh) And why the hell should I trust you this time?

ELIAS
I rather feel the real shame would be letting the entire world fall into darkness because of a single person’s wounded pride, (rattle rattle) Detective. The stakes are far too high for that kind of… indulgence.

[IN THE BACKGROUND, WE HEAR SOME VOICE, LOUDER THAN THEY’VE BEEN SO FAR, BUT STILL INAUDIBLE.]
BASIRA
(heavy breath) So what are they doing?

ELIAS
I don’t know the details. (sigh) Ny-Ålesund is a stronghold of the Dark, meaning I can’t see inside. I believe they call it the Extinguished Sun, though that’s as much as I know. If Gertrude had a plan for this one, I haven’t found it, which is why Jon needs to be closer to the Eye. If anyone can stop what’s happening, he can, see through the darkness etcetera.

BASIRA
And after all this, you want me to just - take it on faith and ferry Jon up to Norway.

ELIAS
Have you ever seen the Aurora borealis? It’s lovely this time of year. It would be a shame to lose them.

Feel free to do your own research to confirm what I’m telling you.

Just don’t take too long.

BASIRA
If you’re lying about this -

ELIAS
(can hear the smirk) You’ll kill me? I can hardly wait.

[BASIRA WALKS OFF.]
ELIAS
Good luck, Detective.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Uh - not really; I was just going to record a statement. Why?

MELANIE
Well… (sigh) Daisy’s been, um… I’ve been keeping her company, uh, while, while Basira’s busy. She’s, um…

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Oh! No, I, uh, I know.

MELANIE
Well. I’ve kinda got to… uh. (inhale) I’ve got somewhere to be. Do you mind if - if she hangs around with…?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, I suppose - Not at all. She’s very welcome.

MELANIE
Great.

ARCHIVIST
If you don’t mind me asking - where are you off to?

[UNFORTUNATELY FOR BOTH OF THEM, THE ARCHIVIST’S SIGNATURE STATIC RUMBLES LOW IN THE BACKGROUND AS HE SPEAKS.]
MELANIE
Therapy. (surprised inhale) Wait…

ARCHIVIST
Oh - Oh god, Melanie, I, I’m sorry; I didn’t mean to -

[MELANIE LETS OUT A VERY ANNOYED, VERY “NOT THIS AGAIN” SIGH.]
MELANIE
It’s fine. I would have probably have told you eventually anyway.

ARCHIVIST
E-Even so, I shouldn’t have - I -

MELANIE
(overlapping) Just forget it.

[SHE SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
It’s good though. I-I’m glad you’re getting help.

MELANIE
Yes, well. We’ll see. (inhale) There’s a - a lot of crap therapists out there.

ARCHIVIST
I guess. Still. I-It is a good step.

MELANIE
I suppose.

ARCHIVIST
You going to tell them the truth?

MELANIE
I don’t know! (long, steadying breath) It’s all a bit - (fwoo-phkush sound) - you know? Uh - C-Can we drop it?

ARCHIVIST
Of course.

[MELANIE OPENS THE DOOR AND STICKS HER HEAD OUT TO CALL TO DAISY.]
MELANIE
(to Daisy) Uh yeah, he’s - he’s fine with it, so…

[DAISY COMES IN.]
DAISY
Alright?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, uh - are you okay?

DAISY
Yeah.

MELANIE
Right. So, anyway - I’m - I’m running late, so, uh - thank you.

ARCHIVIST
Anytime.

[MELANIE LEAVES, CLOSING THE DOOR BEHIND HER.]
ARCHIVIST (CON’T)
You alright?

DAISY
Asked me that already.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Sorry.

[THERE’S AN UNCHARACTERISTIC CASUAL HAPPINESS TO HIS WORDS.]
DAISY
I didn’t ask her to do that.

ARCHIVIST
B - I-I-I-It’s fine.

[DAISY EXHALES.]
DAISY
You’re not babysitting me, alright? I know that’s what the others think, sometimes, but that’s not it; I just - don’t like being on my own if I can help it. You know,flashbacks, panic attacks, the usual. (breath) Just trying to avoid it if I can.

ARCHIVIST
(I know, Daisy. I - I do.)

(exhale) It’s hard.

DAISY
Yeah, well. Don’t let me get in your way.

ARCHIVIST
Of course. (clears his throat) Statement of Alison Killala, regarding her time as friend and carer to special effects artist Neil Lagorio. Original statement given 1st December 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
I loved Neil. I might even have been in love with him; it’s hard to say. When there are so many emotions caught up in a single person, when they’re such a significant force in your life - it gets difficult to say what’s really there at the heart of it.

His work, his art, defined my early life, as his friendship defined the last twenty years of it. One of my earliest memories is cowering behind my mother, watching Labyrinth of the Minotaur on our tiny television, seeing the clay of the creature come alive and move in stop-motion. It terrified me. It thrilled me. It’s - (sigh) - a moment that’s never completely left me. I’ve always had two passions: engineering and special effects. So naturally, the course of my life gradually led me towards working on animatronics. I don’t - care about the other stuff, not really. A squib’s a squib no matter how much you dress it up, and… makeup never really wowed me. Even pyrotechnics, while… impressive and visually spectacular… They just didn’t give me the same sharp joy as making something that could move. That came alive, directed and controlled by my hand. I always felt Frankenstein should have been an engineer, not a medical student, as reading that book I couldn’t help but see myself in that obsessions.

But I suppose everyone’s already done the monster as a robot, haven’t they? (heh)

And none made it move as well as Neil did in 1975 when he worked on Agents of Orion. That was one of his movies that I went back to time and again. The way the robot moved, the weight and life he managed to give each clanking, hissing step. I was fourteen when I managed to hunt down a copy on Betamax, and I just watched that scene over and over again. I was already obsessed with Neil’s work by then, mostly his sci-fi stuff from the late 70’s - Beyond Time, Under New York, The Crawling Ones - all that sort of thing. His earlier stuff I certainly enjoyed, but… for all my fondness for that - animated Minotaur, his stop-motion work never really grabbed me like his animatronics.

The way Neil tells it, he split from his partner Gabe in 1972, and sculpting for stop-motion had never really had the same charm after that.

“Besides,” he always told me, “I’m a puppeteer at heart.” And that was certainly true. Neil never really talked about his early life, but, sometimes, when the medication was kicking in, he would tell me about his training with puppets.

I could never figure out what performance school he learned at, or even if he went to one at all, but he would twist his fingers into all sort of bizarre, intricate shapes, until I could see the strings flowing over them.

“We made them dance,” he would say, wonder and nostalgia in his voice. “Oh, how we made them dance.”

Growing up an 80s cinephile and devotee of his art, I obviously had to learn to love horror. It wasn’t just his work with John Carpenter, either. It was common knowledge that Neil was deliberately seeking out darker and - more grotesque works, though no one knew why. Dead Sky, The Nightmare Children, Forty Winks - they were all in this period of his career, which culminated of course with Toy Shop. While it’s now regarded as a cult classic, I still remember the editorials of the time condemning it, and some even called it “the end of Neil Lagorio.”

I think it was too late to officially be a video nasty, but it was certainly referred to as such in the UK Press. He told me later that he just needed to get it out of his system, though I don’t know if I entirely believed him.

Whatever the case, my own relationship with him started in 1992, on the set of Jewel of the Amazon, a mid-budget effects-driven Kevin Costner vehicle. I’d been working in the industry only a couple of years by that point, and while I’d always dreamed of working with Neil Lagorio someday, it wasn’t - quite how I’d always pictured it. The production was rushed, the budget was stretched, the direction was… uninspired, and Neil seemed broadly miserable.

Despite this - or, maybe because of it - we became friends. I think we bonded on that shoot, sheltering from the rain for hours at a time, watching a soggy animatronic jaguar gradually start to rust. I had to fight every instinct inside me, everything that wanted to burst out in admiration for his work and his - profound effect on my life, but instead I chain-smoked and laughed, trying my best to come across as my hero’s peer.

What was Neil Lagorio like? The question is harder to answer than I always thought it would be. In so many ways, he was his work.

Conversations were usually about the current shoot, future projects, or the most recent films of anyone he considered worth his attention. He had no time for whatever the issue of the day was, and despised Hollywood gossip and anyone who dealt in it.

I will say that there was no… warmth to him. At all. He was not unpleasant or cruel, but beyond that you may as well have been talking to one of his steel-and-hydraulic creations.

There were two sorts of people in the world as far as Neil saw it: those who were worth his time, and those who were not, and if you were in the latter group he honestly couldn’t care if you lived or died. Not that most people could tell which side of the line they fell on. There were even days that - I wasn’t sure myself.

Sometimes, I remember, he would invite people over to his studio that I was sure he hated, for screenings of his original cuts. I was - quite jealous of this at the time, as I’d never got such an invitation. But it was probably for the best. I didn’t realize it back then, but… (sigh) Those guests… (how do I say this) …never quite looked the same afterwards. We stayed in touch over the next few years, even worked together on The Wire Runner, his one underwhelming foray into CGI. He even kept in contact when I left to have my baby. It wasn’t planned, but while I may not have had much time for makeup and monster suits, the bodies inside of them were a… different matter.

Anyway, even once I’d sorted out childcare arrangements, I found myself… more and more unwelcome, in the industry. It wasn’t that people weren’t willing to hire me - by this point, I had a hell of a special effects resume - but the hours you were expected to be working, the way shoots were set up, the culture of drinking, networking - (sigh) - none of it was really possible alongside parenting.

I only really heard about Neil’s work from - what he told me. His disappointment at the director’s limited vision for the irradiated creatures in Eagle Falls, or his satisfaction with his latest - and, as it turned out - last foray into horror, with The Harvestmen. He’d always had a fondness for spiders, he told me, and I of course reminded him that harvestmen weren’t technically spiders.

It was around that time that he started to suffer his first symptoms. He told me later his greatest regret was not being able to finish his final film, an art house piece simply titled Dancer. He never explained what it was about, nor do I think it actually came out, in the end. By the time it was due to start shooting he’d already begun to seize up.

I became his carer a few months later. It just seemed to make sense. A frugal life, lucrative career, and prickly personality had left him with lots of money but no real support, while my life had left me in a position where I - cared deeply about his wellbeing and was in desperate need of money.

Everything just - lined up so neatly.

I will say this once, and you can draw whatever conclusions you wish from it: Neil Lagorio did not have Parkinson’s disease.

He began to have difficulty moving, yes, but his mind remained razor-sharp at all times, and his growing immobility at no point seemed to cause him any pain, or discomfort. It was simply that, over the course of several years, he stopped being able to move under his own power. The doctors were never able to name it anything other than Parkinson’s, and - I’ll admit I’m no expert… But I know they were wrong.

When it started, I was worried that Neil would take the loss of his work very hard. It had been all he was for so long, surely being unable to continue would devastate him. Instead, he threw himself into a new project, one I would never have expected, but that suited my engineering background perfectly: Neil had devised a series of frames, ropes, and pulleys, to be constructed in the rooms and corridors of his home. At the end of these ropes were hooks, which slotted into harnesses, again of his own design, that he wore on his wrists, his neck, his torso, and his legs. When properly built and attached, it allowed me to move him, without a wheelchair or my own support. I could stand him up, and walk him like a puppet.

I protested of course; this man was my hero; I loved him; and there was no way I could subject him to this - awful indignity. But my objections were ignored, as always, and Neil insisted that this was what he wanted.

So I built that - strange contraption, using the skills I had developed across my whole life, to fill every corner of Neil Lagorio’s house with wood and steel and cable. And when it was all done, and I pulled him through his first jerky, standing motions, it did seem to make him happy. Pulling on those levers and cords, moving him step by stiff-limbed step through his house - it was the first time I had seen Neil smile in years.

And so that became our life. For almost a decade, I went to his home every day, strapped him up, and gradually puppeted my idol through whatever strange, parodied version of domestic life he desired.

I still had to feed him, had to wash him, but he would always insist that his arm be hoisted to his mouth before I fed him a sandwich, or that I correctly positioned him in the bath. And gradually the surreal gave way to the mundane, and it simply became our life. I barely even noticed when the harnesses were no longer necessary, when the loops for those hooks were now embedded directly into his body. I must have asked him about it, but at the time it just seemed like - such a natural progression.

It was almost six months ago when the woman came to our door. She looked like a film student, and at first I took her for a fan. Neil’s work wasn’t the sort to attract adoring masses, but occasionally admirers would find their way to his home. Usually he’d send them away, but sometimes he’d have them wait in the atrium while I positioned him in his studio, ready for a short meeting or Q-and-A session.

I was about to ask her to wait while I checked with him, but as I started to speak she turned her head, revealing a mass of white thread criss-crossing all over the side of her temple, standing starkly against the dark brown of her skin.

She told me to sit down, and I did. I heard the levers and pulleys move behind me, and I could tell that Neil was being walked down the corridor towards this woman, but I couldn’t see. I couldn’t turn my head. So I don’t really know what his reaction was. But it didn’t sound like one of fear, or despair. He called her ‘Annabelle,’ and she sent me to his screening room. She told me I was to watch his original cuts. “Just until we’re all done here,” she said.

And as I walked away from Neil, the last time I saw him alive, he was dancing, the cables shifting and moving him in a graceful, sweeping ballet.

And he was crying with joy. I don’t know how long I was watching those films. I don’t - It was hard to keep track of time. According to my daughter, I was missing for five months. When Annabelle let me out, Neil was dead. He was hanging there, wrapped in his strings like a cocoon, twisting gently around, and around, and around.

She told me to take the films, his original cuts. She told me to come here. She told me to give them to you. I resisted for some time, but I’m done now. She’s won. And I’d - very much like to go home.

ARCHIVIST
(sharp intake of breath) Statement ends. (exhale) Hm. Neil Lagorio. You ever see any of his work?

DAISY
No. Not really into films.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Mm, they were… Well, let’s just say it’s not a complete shock there was something unnatural to them. Didn’t know we had copies in the Institute, though, let alone original cuts.

[HE LAUGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Records indicate they ended up in… (paper flips) Artefact Storage.

DAISY
Probably best they stay there.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. (inhale) Yes, of course.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Annabelle Cane, though… She worries me - I - I don’t know. This is the second time she’s turned up, uh… Peripheral to the Institute?

DAISY
That you know of.

ARCHIVIST
Meaning what?

DAISY
(sigh) She’s Web. Spider’s sneaky like that. Like that lighter you’re always using; where’d you get that?

ARCHIVIST
Mm. Good point. We should keep our eyes open. Anyways - How’s Basira doing? I haven’t seen hr much since - (inhale) Well, she seemed a bit tense the last few times we spoke. (cautiously) How are you guys doing?

DAISY
(overlapping, clears throat) No, Basira she’s - she’s been good. We’re together, so it’s good, (sigh) if she didn’t keep treating me like a china doll. (inhale, exhale over speaking) But it’s alright.

ARCHIVIST
That’s understandable, I suppose.

DAISY
(sigh) Yeah, well - (sigh) What do you think? You think I’m weak, just - (sigh) - ‘cause I’m not already chasing the next kill? You think I’m less me?

ARCHIVIST
I - (sigh) I don’t feel like I’m exactly in the best place to judge the intersection between free will and humanity. (stuttering inhale) I’m still trying to figure that out myself.

DAISY
Jon… When you went in the coffin, was it you choosing to do that? Did you actually think you could save me, or was that something telling you to do it?

ARCHIVIST
It was me. I was - drawn to it, I’ll admit, but it was my decision. It wasn’t entirely about you, though.

[HE SIGHS AS HE SAYS THOSE LAST WORDS.]
DAISY
What was it?

ARCHIVIST
My - (large sigh) My memories of the coma are not clear, but I know I made a choice; I made a choice to become… something else. Because I was afraid to die. But ever since then, I - I don’t know if I made the right decision; I’m stronger now, tougher, I can - (he cuts himself off) If I do die now, or get sealed away somewhere forever? I don’t know if that’s a bad thing. And I don’t want to lose anyone else, so if I can maybe - stop that happening, and the only danger is to me, I - I’ll do it in a heartbeat; worst case scenario, the universe loses another monster.

DAISY
That’s messed up.

[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A LAUGH.]
ARCHIVIST
(inhale) Yeah. I suppose it is.

DAISY
Did you know the coffin wouldn’t kill you?

ARCHIVIST
I - guess I thought imprisonment wouldn’t be as bad as it was.

[DAISY SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
And it’s a lot easier to make that choice than it is to actually endure the result; you might have noticed when I was in there with you I… I had regrets.

DAISY
Yeah. I remember.

ARCHIVIST
Plus I thought - (pause, small sigh) Well, I didn’t know what being down there had done to you.

DAISY
(slight intake of breath) You thought I was gonna kill you?

ARCHIVIST
It was a possibility.

DAISY
Guess so.

[A SHORT PAUSE, SILENT BUT FOR THE ARCHIVIST’S BREATHING.]
ARCHIVIST
Daisy.

DAISY
Hm?

ARCHIVIST
It, uh - hm - Is it, uh - Weird question, but - I - (sigh) I haven’t seen you in my dreams? The last couple of weeks?

DAISY
Oh, ah - No, I - I work here now. Figured it seemed to protect the others, so -

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Right, so you - wait, did you talk to Lukas, or…?

DAISY
(overlapping, hah) Broke into Elias’s old office, found an employment contract, filled it in, and signed it.

ARCHIVIST
And that worked.

DAISY
Seems so.

ARCHIVIST
And you’re not… worried about -

DAISY
Basira’s trapped here. So are you. Not like I’m going anywhere anyway.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose not. So… (sigh) No more dreams.

DAISY
Not of you and your weird eyes. Just the coffin.

ARCHIVIST
Is that better?

DAISY
(fierce) It’s mine.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

DAISY
You need to stop moping.

ARCHIVIST
(the picture of Edwardian offense) I what?

DAISY
You need to stop swanning around, being all sad.

ARCHIVIST
I - I’m not swanning around -

DAISY (OVERLAPPING)
Boo-hoo, I’m so alone and a monster.

ARCHIVIST
I am alone. Martin is -

DAISY
Busy doing paperwork. Not like he’s dead. Besides, he’s not the only other person here, you know. There’s me, Melanie, Basira -

ARCHIVIST
Traumatized, traumatized, and paranoid becuase of me.

DAISY
(give me strength) Get over yourself! You’re always talking about choices; we all made ours. Now I’m making a choice to get some drinks in. Coming?

ARCHIVIST
(wha?) I - I don’t - I - (slight pause, he grapples with the concept of friendship) Yeah, okay.

DAISY
Melanie’s out. But I’ll go get Basira.

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Is she - W-Will she want to join us?

DAISY
(darkly) If she doesn’t, I’ll rip her throat out.

ARCHIVIST
Uhhh…

DAISY
It’s a joke, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Haha! (soft) Yes. I - I-I’ll get my coat.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. THERAPIST’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
THERAPIST
Right, have a seat.

[IMMEDIATELY, WE NOTICE A LARGE RUSH OF BACKGROUND NOISE. IT’S NOT OBVIOUS WHAT’S MAKING IT UP - IT’S VERY CONDENSED - BUT IT’S DEFINITELY THERE. THE THERAPIST HERSELF SOUNDS VERY PLEASANT.]
THERAPIST
Do you mind if I record our sessions?

MELANIE
I do mind, yes.

THERAPIST
Ah, I mean, it’s just for my own notes -

MELANIE
I categorically, and completely, do not give consent for you to make any recording of me, ever. Turn it off. Please.

THERAPIST
I - I see. Yes, of course.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
GERTRUDE
Case 9550307, Wallis Turner. Incident occurred at the North Point prisoner-of-war camp, then later the sunken ship Nemesis, in late 1942. Statement taken 3rd of July, 1955 at the Pu Songling Research Centre, Beijing. Committed to tape 9th of October, 2014. Gertrude Robinson recording.

GERTRUDE (STATEMENT)
I always knew what sort of a thing war was. Even when everything was going to hell, even when it just plain stopped making sense, and what I was seeing and hearing was obviously ghosts and monsters - even then it still didn’t surprise me. Not really.

I never wanted to join up, never cared about fighting for my country. I mean, what, like my country ever fought for me? No. No government ever gave a damn about me, and I didn’t feel like I had anything needed paying back on that front. Add to that, I was terrified. I’ll admit it, the thought of marching off to war set my whole body shaking, and I can still remember the nightmares I had when I got the notice.

I was half an inch from going conchie - going to prison and taking my lumps - but in the end it was my dad that pushed me into the uniform. And it wasn’t an argument or telling-off that did it, either. He just looked so damn proud when I told him. His son, the soldier. Don’t know if I’d ever seen him look at me like that before. And I just didn’t have the heart to break it. Me going conchie would kill him, so I had to learn to kill others.

And that’s the thing that really scared me, you know? I wasn’t scared of dying, not really. Everything dies in the end, and the chaplain says you end up with God. Who am I to say different? Even if it’s just sleep, just a quiet nothing forever, it’s not like you know enough to be bored, is it? No, death ain’t scary.

But killing, that’s scary. To look another living thing in the eyes and end it forever, strip away everything they could have been, could have done, or felt - nobody should ever have to do that. Sergeant once told me it’s no different from killing a chicken back home. But people aren’t chickens, and the idea that war strips us all down to just a body, that moves and kills, or falls and dies, makes me feel sick to my stomach.

I don’t like killing chickens, either. But none of my feelings mattered in the end. I got the uniform, the training, and the gun then ended up shipped off to the Pacific to fight the Japanese. I’ve got no desire to share the details of my service. They’re not memories I care to dwell on, and they’re certainly not why I’m here. Let’s just say that neither my noble comrades-in-arms nor the soldiers fighting for His Majesty the Emperor seemed to share my lofty ideals about the sanctity of life. Still, I got through a while without dying and even without killing anybody. That I know of, at least. I fired my gun plenty, I guess, and you don’t usually see where the bullet lands, do you?

I was captured after about six months and sent to the North Point prison camp in occupied Hong Kong. At the time it seemed like a relief, but then I hadn’t heard the stories about how the Japanese treated their POWs. I mean, these days after the Tokyo trial and everything, I, I guess everyone knows how bad it was. But I didn’t have a clue when we first surrendered.

The things people will do to their fellow man, just because someone with a shinier badge tells them to. And even then, our treatment was a picnic compared to the Chinese prisoners who came through North Point. But again, that’s not the point, and I have no interest in dwelling on the suffering. Plenty of others to tell those stories, if you want them.

I was in that place for four months - four months of hell. I know others who were in there a lot longer, and I sure don’t envy them. Though the way I got out wasn’t exactly ideal.

Leonard was the one who heard it first. He was the closest thing I had to a friend in that place: Leonard Holden, built like a barn, and about as complicated. He’d worked on a farm before signing up, and sometimes it seemed like that was about the limit of what he thought the world was. At least until the rest of the world caught up with him. Poor bastard.

We’d been captured at the same time, and the fact his head stuck out above the others meant it was easier for me to stick by him when we were all getting sorted. We pushed through those four months together, me watching him go from a hulking farm boy into a scrawny beanpole of a man. He never lost his smile, though. Not until he heard that music.

It was a cool winter night when it happened. It never got properly cold in North Point, not like back home, but you still ended shivering most of your nights away. There was the lightest of rains that night, when the Nemesis arrived.

We were trying to sleep, pushed into our cramped wooden huts, thin blankets pulled tight. At first, it was a drumbeat - distant, regular, sometimes broken by the rattling role of a snare drum. I could feel my pulse quicken, like it wanted to match the tempo, though I’ve no idea why.

I should have been confused - scared, maybe, and I guess I was, but I could also feel my fingers tap-tap-tapping away to the beat. Beside me, Leonard started to hum to himself, a tune I could almost half-remember hearing, just before the trumpet began to drift over the waters just a few yards beyond the walls.

I call it a trumpet because that’s the closest thing I can think to liken to that sound. But it sure wasn’t any trumpet they played on the parade ground. By this point we were all out of our beds and clustering around the dirt-caked windows looking out towards the water. I don’t know if any of us had any expectations of what was going to happen, but unless it was some Japanese military thing, I think we were all expecting to watch some… people… die. And we did, I guess. Just the way we thought.

There was a boat floating out there not 20 yards in the shoreline. It wasn’t like any Imperial ship I’d ever seen, but I didn’t think it belonged to our side, either. It was metal, but not like the warships I was used to. It was like an old tall ship, with tattered masts and rigging, but made entirely out of cold, black iron. I knew it was cold. It made me cold just to look at it. The whole thing shone in the moonlight, slick with water, as though it had been caught in a rainstorm, and I could see the name written in English on the prow, clear as anything: Nemesis.

It had been almost a full minute by now, and we’d still heard no response from the guards. No searchlights, no alarms, no angry shouting, none of the things that usually accompanied any sort of commotion. That should have been a good thing, right? But instead, I just felt this pit in my stomach, like I knew whatever was coming had to be really, really bad.

Just then, I saw figures moving towards the shore. Even in the dark, I could make out the uniforms of our captors, but they weren’t moving right. They were stepping slowly, walking to the rhythm of the drum, the swelling of the trumpet. In another life, another… reality, I’d almost have said they were dancing.

They kept going until they stood at the water’s edge. I counted dozens of them. It must have been every guard in the camp, or damn near it. They were still moving around each other, still shifting and stepping to the rhythm of that music, but now something was in their hands, glinting in the moonlight. Our captors held their blades tight, keeping them utterly still while their bodies moved and swayed. Then in a moment, the control broke, and they fell on each other suddenly, each crying out with unleashed ferocity.

One man severed his commander’s arm in a single swipe, before being run through the stomach by his former comrade. Two more plunged the points into each other’s eyes, pushing forward, driving them in until they both collapsed, propped up, intertwined. It only took a few seconds, and then they were all dead, and the dirt was slick with their blood, flowing down and into the water where the Nemesis floated.

When they were lying still, and the music stopped, the night was quiet again. That’s when I heard the sound that really chilled my blood: all my comrades, my fellow prisoners, cheered. And it wasn’t the cheer of those glad for freedom. It was the sound of bloodlust and cruelty.

Without any fear of the guards, we left our cramped dormitories and filed down towards the ship that all the others seemed to think was our salvation. They walked slowly, almost reverently, stepping over the bodies of our slain jailers. A few bent down, pulling long knives and bayonets from the corpses, not even bothering to wipe the trailing gore from them.

Small boats paddled over from the ship and started to ferry us over. The sailors wore old uniforms, a mess of different navies, different eras. Some I recognized from history books, others were a complete mystery to me. All of them had some telltale stain, or burn, or patch of missing cloth - something that made it clear that whoever was wearing the uniform was not the original owner.

It took several trips to transfer everybody to Nemesis, but in all that time, nobody spoke. It was surreal. My whole time as a prisoner had felt like a nightmare, but this… this felt like something else entirely.

They lined us all up on the deck, as if we were mustering for something, none of us dressed or uniformed, a few holding salvaged weapons, waiting to know what was expected of us. And the ship began to sail, out down towards the open ocean, wind and salt cutting through us as we went. My feet felt stuck to the deck, shivering, as we watched this weird mismatch of bloody sailors maneuver this thing that seemed like it belonged to the bottom of the sea. Looking around, I could see the metal was twisted and bent in places, and staring closer at the deck below, I began to notice rust and holes laced through it. There was absolutely no way that this vessel should have been floating.

After an hour, we completely lost sight of the land, and the only things beyond our ship were the rolling black waters and the hollow glow of a full moon. That was when the music started up again. We were so close now, every pulse of the drum shuddered through us.

And the trumpet notes cut through us. I could see now it was made of the same black iron as the ship, and embedded like shrapnel in the hand that held it, the lips that blew into it. Whatever spell had come over the others was gone in an instant, and I could feel the sudden terror flow out of them in a flood of unleashed fear. Some of them started to whimper. Others tried to ask questions of anyone they thought might be officers, but they were ignored, and the music just got louder.

Leonard was the first to dance. Well, I think of it as a dance, though I don’t know why. He reached over and grabbed another one of the former prisoners, a scrawny guy, I, I think his name was Milton. He gave a cry of anger that I could never have imagined coming from his gentle, smiling lips, even in the heat of battle. There was nothing Milton could do. Even malnourished as he was, it was easy for Leonard to snap his arm like a twig, twist his neck until his leg spasmed and his skull started to crack. Even when his victim was clearly dead, he kept beating it, tossing the corpse across the deck with as much ferocity as if it were the most hated man alive.

The bloody crew of the Nemesis watched, their eyes riveted, and their feet tapping to the music. Leonard’s rampage against the now-unrecognizable corpse of Milton only ended when another soldier, whose name I never knew, lept forward with that same cry of violence, and began to stab him wildly with a stolen bayonet. So it continued, hour upon hour of that night, as one-by-one the stolen prisoners succumbed to that music, their silent, frozen terror giving way in a moment to the eager desire to kill.

The crew, hungry for death in their stolen uniforms, at first cried out in joy with each new murder. Then, they cried out with expectation. And at last, with what sounded like concern, casting their eyes up into the empty sky as though waiting for something. As fewer and fewer of us remained, I could feel something like panic begin to spread through them, and I began to see the water line creeping higher and higher up the side of the ship, reaching eagerly to pull the Nemesis back down into its grave.

The whole time, I expected the music to reach me - to take me, to seize my heart with murderous purpose. But it never did. Even as the last of the other prisoners began to hack wildly at each other, and the waters started to flow over the sides and around my ankles, I never felt it.

Instead, I broke and ran, fleeing for one of the smaller boats that had ferried us from the shore. The crew did not stop me. They simply watched me with expressions of despair - the deepest disappointment I’ve ever seen.

The small craft was iron, like the larger vessel, and as the Nemesis sank finally beneath the waves again, I cut the remaining ropes and simply… floated away. I was terrified I’d be picked up by the Japanese, or die out there in the ocean, but as it was, I got lucky, and a few days later was picked up by an Allied ship. I told them my story, just like I’m telling you now. And what do you know? I got to sit out the rest of the war.

I often think about that night. But it’s not the blood I remember - not the black iron ship, or the look on Leonard Holden’s face as he pulled poor Milton apart. It’s the sadness on the faces of those who kidnapped us. Those who made us dance to their violence. I don’t think I’ll ever know what they expected to happen. But I think I’m very glad it didn’t.

GERTRUDE
Final comments.

Well, that’s quite a relief. Nearly 40 years I’d been wondering about the Slaughter’s ritual, keeping an eye out for anything that might be stirring. And it turns out I needn’t have been worried at all. The Risen War failed a few years before I was even born.

I should have known, I suppose. Few wars in my lifetime have reached anywhere near the heights of fear I suspect this ritual would need - though I did spend some time a while back looking over some details from the Cuban Missile Crisis to, heh, no avail. And all this time, the answer was just sitting in the archives of the Songling Center. Funny how that works, sometimes.

An interesting set of trappings for this one: the Opium War history of the Nemesis, uniforms linking - no doubt - to horrific crimes from every Imperial nation, all placed in the bloody heart of the Pacific Theatre. And Japanese POWs… something to do with attitudes towards surrender and atrocity in Japan at the time? The Senjinkun military code? Not my place to speculate, I suppose.

Still, the anticlimax is fascinating. I can only assume they were supposed to be bombed at the height of the ritual - maybe by Japanese aircraft, maybe Allied, maybe both. I wonder what stopped it. A Japanese radar filled with spiderwebs, a US destroyer finding itself suddenly alone in the open ocean? Heh. We’ll probably never know.

Heh, I suppose… Hah! If any of them survived the re-sinking of the Nemesis… God, they must have been kicking themselves in 1945! If they had just had a bit more patience, waited a few years, sailed her into Nagasaki Harbor instead… Still, none of us can tell the future, can we?

So, that’s nice. Another one to cross off the list. Doesn’t help with the Unknowing, though.

(sigh) Well, you still have Dekker’s back-up plan, of course, but it’s very risky. To be sure, I think the detonation would need to happen from within the Unknowing, while it was going on. Gerard may have a connection to the Eye, but I’m not convinced it would be enough. And I will admit I’ve grown… fond of the boy.

I wonder if I told him about Eric, whether he’d follow in his father’s footsteps… Still, it’s not like it kept Eric safe in the end.

Anyway, point is, you can probably discount the Slaughter. It had its chance.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
So. Funny story. Turns out when Daisy broke the lock to get into Elias’s old office… well, she did a good enough job that it’s not obviously broken. So, it hasn’t been replaced yet.

So, I had a look around. Mostly as I remember, but there’s a box of tapes and statements in the corner. Obviously those Elias either didn’t feel he could trust me with yet, or maybe just the ones he was checking himself.

Ideally, I’d like to avoid tipping Peter off for as long as possible that I have access, but it turns out I don’t Know Elias’s safe combination. Not yet, anyway.

So I just took the first one that called to me, and it’s… it’s good, I suppose. Glad to know I don’t need to worry about a Slaughter ritual. Nice to get confirmation that whoever Eric was, he was Gerry’s father and, well, one assumes Mary Keay’s partner.

But nothing with any direction to it. Ever since I crawled out of that damn coffin I feel like I’ve been… adrift. Filling in blanks and diving into history, but only… The breadcrumbs I’m finding are stale. Old.

What the hell is the Watcher’s Crown? So far, the only mention of it I’ve had is from Gerry, and he didn’t seem to know much about what it actually meant. And he’s gone, now.

But if it is the grand ritual of Beholding then I - I mean, I need to know about it. Right? I feel like I’m on a deadline, like I’m running out of time, somehow. And I don’t even know where to go, what to look for, or… I’m just casting around blindly for more clues to just drop into my lap. Everyone else is running towards something or running away, and I… I don’t know what I’m doing.

I’m just tired. Think I might go lie down for a while. Get a cup of tea. Daisy’s got me listening to The Archers. I hate it. But it feels nice to hate something that can’t hurt me. I don’t know. That’s it, I, I guess.

End recording.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. PRISON, VISITATION ROOM]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ELIAS
There. Much better.

[HIS HANDCUFFS JANGLE AS HE SPEAKS, AND THERE’S THE USUAL PRISON BACKGROUND NOISE WE’VE COME TO EXPECT.]
MARTIN
You know I don’t care if Jon hears this.

ELIAS
Come on, Martin. It’s been so long since I’ve seen you. Let’s not start with lies.

[MARTIN TAKES A STEADYING BREATH.]
MARTIN
(sigh) Fine.

ELIAS
I am very pleased to see you.

MARTIN
Mhm.

ELIAS
No time for pleasantries? Very well, then. To business. What can I do for you? Tired of running budgets for Peter? I know I would be.

MARTIN
I’m - I need to - (inhale, then short hm) Is he telling the truth?

ELIAS
About what?

[HIS HANDCUFFS RATTLE.]
MARTIN
About any of it.

[ELIAS INHALES HEAVILY.]
ELIAS
Everything Peter has told you is true.

MARTIN
(huh, really?!) Oh…

ELIAS
For all his… many faults, Peter is legitimately trying to stop the end of the world as we know it.

MARTIN
So why haven’t you helped him?

ELIAS
My relationship to the apocalypse is more… complicated.

MARTIN
(overlapping sigh) Seriously?

[RATTLE RATTLE.]
ELIAS
Seriously. Anyway, I have helped him. I’ve given him control of the Institute, I’ve provided him with -

MARTIN
Me?

ELIAS
- any manpower he might require.

[MARTIN SCOFFS: YEAH, RIGHT.]
MARTIN
(increasingly heated) Yeah, but if - if he’s right about the Extinction, what it is, then why didn’t you say anything before; why am I only hearing it about it now; and why doesn’t Jon know?

ELIAS
In my case, while Peter has talked of it before, it was only very recently that I was forced to admit the Extinction is real. And as for our dear Archivist, I’m afraid I no longer have any real control over what he does or does not know, unlike yourself. I notice you haven’t told him either.

MARTIN
Yeah, well. I’m still not sure I really believe it. (long exhale) A,And I don’t… I - I’m -

ELIAS
(rattle) Worried he might charge off into another coffin.

[HE MAKES A SMUG LITTLE SOUND.]
Quite. (rattle) As for why I’ve done so little about such a looming existential threat, (sigh) to be blunt, I have been rather busy.

[MARTIN MAKES A SPUTTERING NOISE THAT EQUATES TO: YEAH, RIGHT X2.]
Don’t forget, I - (rattle) - am still living at Her Majesty’s pleasure, due in no small part to your actions. So by this point, all I can do is confirm that everything Peter has told you is true.

[SHORT PAUSE.]
MARTIN
I think he wants me to join the Lonely.

ELIAS
Then it sounds like you have a decision to make.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
What? (small dry laugh) That’s it? No, no monologue, no mind games? You love manipulating people!

ELIAS
That makes two of us.

[RATTLE.]
No. This is too important for me to jeopardize with cheap - (rattle) - mind games. I simply have to trust that when the time comes, you’ll - (rattle) - make the right choice.

MARTIN
Great! (small sigh, under his breath) Great, great. (to Elias) So what you’re actually saying is that you’re gonna be - no help whatsoever!

[YOU CAN HEAR THE GRIN IN ELIAS’S VOICE WHEN HE SPEAKS.]
ELIAS
Just like old times.

[RATTLE.]
MARTIN
I don’t know what I expected. (shaky inhale) Right, we’re done here.

[He starts to walk away.]

ELIAS
Don’t forget to keep in touch, Martin. There are so many people in here, but without one’s friends…

[MARTIN UNLOCKS/OPENS THE DOOR TO LEAVE.]
It does get rather lonely.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ????]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
MARTIN
M-Martin Blackwood, Assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute, recording statement number… 8671302. Statement of Robert Smirke, taken from a letter to Jonah Magnus, dated 13th of Februrary, 1867.

[HE CLEARS HIS THROAT.]
MARTIN (STATEMENT)
My dear Jonah,

You will forgive me, I hope, for being so forward, but I feel I must break the silence that has characterized our acquaintance for these past few decades.

You see, Jonah, I feel the hour of my death approaching, and, though you have always been reluctant to pay due heed to my warnings or counsel, I continue to see in you the reflection of my own past hubris. I could not go easy to my grave without offering one last plea for your restraint. What we built at Millbank should be left well enough alone, resigned to the nightmares of the reprobates and brigands contained within its walls.

I have been blessed with a long life, something few who cross paths with the Dread Powers can boast, but now, at the end of it, my true fear is that I have wasted it, chasing an impossible dream. To speak plain, I have begun to lose faith in the possibility of balance, of any sort of equilibrium among them.

It is telling, that of those I have brought into my confidence, it is only you and I who have continued this far without falling to one power or another, despite all my instruction and work. This is, of course, assuming you have not taken the path of the Eye that I know has called you, called us both for so long. Even since before we began our work on Millbank.

I suppose I had to believe that the darkened natures of our terror could be kept in check, weighed against each other so that the great wheel would keep turning forever, without reaching the velocity I feared would crush us. Perhaps my sin was to see them as something that could be knowable, and harnessed.

I’m sure you recall what happened with the Reform Club, but you may be unaware of some of my other experiments below the very streets of London. Places I have tried to cover with churches, of all things, in the faint hope that… perhaps the site of our Saviour will be enough to contain them. A rather feeble hope, for my own salvation.

Did I ever tell you about the dreams? I’m sure I must have. I would dream about them, you see, as a young man, long before I devised my taxonomy. I would find myself in nightmares of strange, far-off places: a field of graves, a grasping tunnel, an abattoir knee-deep in pig’s blood. I believed then, as I still believe now, that these places I saw were the Powers themselves, expressed in their truest form, far more entirely than any “secret” book can claim.

And if, as I came to believe, the Dread Powers were themselves places of some sort, then surely with the right space, the right architecture, they could be contained. Channeled. Harnessed. So yes, hubris. Not simply in that, I suppose, but in believing that those I brought into my confidence shared my lofty goals.

So many have abandoned us, casting about for rituals that I helped design. In my excited discussions with Mr. Rayner, I perhaps extrapolated too much from his talk of a grand ritual of darkness. The Dark, I thought, was simply one of the powers, so it stands to reason that each of them should have its own ritual. Perhaps they already did, even before I put pen to paper.

They certainly do now, and I shudder to think how Lukas, Scott, and the others may use this conception.

Fourteen powers, with their opposites and their allies, each with an aim no more or less than manifestation. Apocalypse. Apotheosis. I wonder, did my work bring about these dreadful things, or - did I simply develop the means by which they can be known?

I should have realized, of course, when we first discussed the Flesh, for how can there be true balance, each one to its opposite, when new fears can emerge and change as civilization itself grows and alters, when a new power can birth itself screaming from the torn remnants of others?

I know you say the Flesh was perhaps always there, shriveled and nascent until its recent growth, but to grant the existence of such a lesser power would throw everything into confusion. Would you have me separate the Corruption into insects, dirt, and disease? T,To divide the fungal bloom from the maggot? No. No, I - stand by my work, and thus, we must conclude that the only explanation is a new Power, created from what was once others, yet also distinct. And if such change is possible, how, then, can any true balance be achieved through immutable, unchanging stone?

I have been dreaming again, Jonah. The same every night for months, now. I imagine myself a boy again at Aspley. I awake, cold and alone in the dormitory. The sky outside is dark, and I see no stars. I light a candle, to better see my way, and step down the silent corridor. The master’s rooms are empty, the fire in the kitchen is dead. Eventually my steps lead out into the courtyard. It is so quiet that the sound of my feet upon the grass is painful to my ears. I stop, and look up at the sky, that empty black nothing, and I see the edges of the horizon becoming a dull white. I cannot understand what I am looking at.

And then the sky blinks.

And I awake.

I am not a fool. I know well enough what this dream is likely to mean, and I warn you again, that if you have any remaining ambitions to use our work, to try and wear the Watcher’s Crown, you must abandon them! Not simply for the sake of your own soul, but for that of the world! I have always had the utmost respect for you as a man of dignity and learning. Donot allow yourself to fall to this madness.

I have been thinking, of late, about the first origin of the Dread Powers, if such beings can really be said to have true origins. Are they eternal? Or were they created from our own fear by some - grand accident, or, worse, some grand design? I believe the latter to be the case, as you well know, for I have in vain struggled to reconcile their creation with the existence of a loving god.

They are not demons, of this I am sure, though we have drawn parallels with their acolytes and certain monstrous figures from ancient myth. No, I feel certain they were brought into existence by some - ancient civilization, some foolish tribe from pre-history.

Do you know of Alexander Cunningham? He’s been working with the viceroy of India on the Indus Valley digs, and has discovered some quite remarkable things. Burial pits full of burned bones and ash; skulls with markings, as if the eyes were removed; and others that seemed buried alive. Perhaps a dying civilization sought to harness its own terror, as we once thought to harness its results.

Of course, such things are pure conjecture. (long inhale) I have not brought Cunningham into my confidence on this, nor do I believe there will be any cause to, even if there was still time remaining to me. (soft hm) Perhaps you’re wondering why I’m so convinced of my imminent demise, and why I should see it as cause to reach out to you, after so much silence and distrust has passed between us. Certainly, you must either wonder, or you already know all too well.

I have been watched for some time, now, since shortly before the dreams began. It was subtle at first, easy to ignore and dismiss. What possible harm could there be in the idle glance of a footman, staring at you as you leave your home? And no doubt the shopkeeper is permitted to watch whomsoever he pleases within the confines of his own establishment. (inhale) So I have been reassuring myself, as I attempted to ignore my own growing disquiet.

But what is not to be dismissed is when your driver, on the long road from London, takes his eyes from the horses and begins to turn his head, slowly at first, but with a clear determination, inch by inch without ceasing, neck cracking and skin stretching, until his whole head seems as though it were placed atop his shoulders in reverse by some careless sculptor.

The others in my carriage seemed not to mark this awful sight, but I could scarce look away, and the eyes of this twisted figure locked on my own, tears streaming from their corners. It was such a dreadful spectacle that it took every ounce of my composure not to hurl myself bodily from the coach.

The journey was not a short one, and for all those hours the driver did not once for a second look away. The horses seemed to take it all in stride.

Since then, I have attempted to avoid such situations, and have traveled primarily by the railway - but, even then, it seems I cannot avoid the ceaseless gaze of those silent figures who gather along the side of the track to stare at me as I pass. I count the billowing smoke as a blessing, for though it sends me into coughing fits, it at least serves to hide me from their relentless eyes.

I am choosing to assume that these manifestations are unintentional, Jonah, and you have not simply decided to implore a dark patron to end the life of an old man. I further find myself supposing that they might emanate from your own intrigues and preparations to culminate those plans which we agreed to abandon so many decades ago.

I beg you, do not pursue this goal; if only a single lesson may be gleaned from my life of long study and longer hardship, it is that the fear of death is natural, and to flee from it will only bring greater misery. Repent of your sins, Jonah. Seek forgiveness. I am certain the Dread Powers cannot take a soul who keeps faith in the Resurrection.

As for myself, I must cling to hope, for I cannot ultimately deny the wavering of my own faith. I have pleaded with the Lord to give me strength, to help shield me from the things I have sought these many decades, to protect me, as my end draws near. I do not believe my prayers have been heard.

Last night I was awoken by a noise from the drawing room. I was in my own bed, and the moon shone through the window, casting the place in a pale and sickly hue, though it was illumination enough to assure myself I was alone. The noise came again, however, and I called out to Laura, asking if she had woken in the night. There was no reply. I struck a match, and lit my meager candle, clinging desperately to its small pinprick of warmth and light, and I crept towards the drawing room.

The door opened slowly, and the room within was in pitch darkness, the heavy curtains having been drawn across the window. In the sputtering glow of the candle, I could see a figure stood in the corner opposite the door. It wore a long nightdress, and seemed at a glance to be my dear, sweet Laura. I let out a breath and began to settle myself, asking her what she was doing out of bed. She did not respond, however. She remained silent instead, facing into the corner of the room.

I approached slowly, that restored confidence fleeing me as swiftly as it had arrived, and asked her again. This time, she began to turn, with such a slowness I was reminded instantly of the driver. I started to speak again, but at that moment my candle went out, plunging me into abject darkness. I fumbled desperately for a match, and, finding one in my nightgown, I struck it in a panic, casting a sudden light on my surroundings.

Laura’s face was inches from my own, her eyes staring into mine, so wide that they seemed to take up half her face or more, bulging grotesquely from their sockets. I screamed. Just once. She gave no response of her own.

I wanted to run, to - lock myself in my room, but under the sight of those horrible eyes, my entire body seemed to freeze, and I stood there, match held aloft, eyes locked with this awful parody of my daughter.

After an eternity, the flame reached my fingers, and I dropped the match, letting the relief of darkness wash over me. I stood there until morning, only to find Laura gone. It was then I began composing this letter.

Laura, of course, claims no knowledge of the night’s events, having no memory of even leaving her chamber. The Eye has marked me for something, of this I have no doubt. My humble hope is that it may be a swift death, an accidental effect of your own researches, which I once again implore you to abandon. It is likely too late for me, but I will not -

[MARTIN BREAKS OFF, FLIPS THE PAGE OVER.]
MARTIN
Um… He, um… the letter ends there. Uh - apparently Robert Smirke was found collapsed in his study that evening, dead of, uh… apoplexy. Hm. I-I don’t know how the letter reached the Archives - I mean, (noncommittal sound) I can guess, but…

So. So what; what does it mean? Am I supposed to be reassured that new entities can be born, that there’s some - some kind of precedent for the Extinction?

(slight pause) Peter? (pause) Huh. Maybe he has gone to a party. (clipped exhale) Anyway.

(inhale) Smirke was clearly wrong about the Powers balancing each other, at least. I mean - i-i,it’s obviously impossible. There’s too much variation in, in how much something is feared by people any one time, an-and if that’s the case, I suppose it’s… not impossible that Peter…… might be telling the truth.

I don’t know what he’s talking about when he mentions Millbank. The old prison I guess? Tim said the tunnels under the Institute were all that was left of it, but - Jon said he’d checked them pretty thoroughly.

(sigh) I’m not the one who knows all about this stuff. I wish - (he breaks off) N,no. No, it’s fine; I’m fine; (huff) I can do this.

(slight pause, inhale) I don’t know what Peter’s planning; my, my guess is that it might involve something below the Institute. Hopefully by the time you get these tapes I’ll have something more concrete for you.

Good luck, Jon; I -

Stay safe.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Eugene Vanderstock, regarding the creation of Agnes Montague, her life, care, and death. Original statement given November 30th, 2006. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Arthur asked me to tell you that Agnes Montague is dead. He asked me specifically, because he knew I’d have to write my whole bloody story down for you and it would hurt, like hell. But I talked out of turn to him, suggested that we should just burn this whole place to the ground with you inside, so I suppose this counts as my punishment.

He thinks I’m scared enough not to make good on my threats without his say-so. And he’s probably right. Just as well you’re not here. Smart move on your part. They always are, aren’t they? Smart moves. Someday you’re going to push your luck too far, and when you do… well you just better hope it isn’t Jude who comes to collect.

So, me? I was born in ‘36 - I know, I don’t look seventy, but burning the candle at all ends does have a few advantages. Until you burn out entirely, at least. It’s hard to say how much I’ve got left in me, how much longer my sacrifice can buy me. But when I go, you better believe I’m going big, and it is going to hurt.

You know, I got my start in the Blitz. I remember it like it was yesterday. It was [Glenn] Dunlop’s house that did it, you know. We were always playing together outside; sometimes his mum would give us tea. Well, it was gone. Nothing but rubble and - (heh) and Desolation. Glenn and his parents had been in the shelter out back, but I guess it wasn’t quite sheltered enough, and only his dad made it out. He was a tall, strong man, used to work as a stevedore, and I’d never seen him without a stern expression and a pipe. But now, staggering through the ruins of his life, the look I saw on his face - It woke something in me. Something truly awful.

Anyone who talks about “the Blitz spirit” wasn’t there, or wants to paper over their fear with nostalgia. Terrible things happened in the Blackout, and we hurt each other just as much as the Germans hurt us. And I hurt so very many people.

A building fire is a dreadful thing, but so much more dreadful when it’s shining out into that night.

It was the first of my crimes, but not the last, and arson has always been my thing. It’s such a simple way to destroy everything someone has built, both literally and figuratively. I found my god through my own path, served it in my own way, and when Arthur and Diego found me, told me there were others that shared my devotion- well, I can’t say it doesn’t feel nice to belong. Even if we do have our… little disagreements.

And one of those disagreements came down to… I suppose you could call it destiny. We all felt the calling, the dreams, pulling us ever closer to a world of fire and loss, a place of burning and agony when we remade the world in the image of the Lightless Flame, for one Diego called Asag.

We all felt it, longed for it. But a longing is not the same thing as an instruction. We’d all been touched and warped by proximity to the holy burning fire, but none of us had any special knowledge, no matter what Diego claims he might have read. He wanted a grand inferno, a ritual of apocalyptic burning that would make the firebombing of Dresden look like a sparkler.

Which sounded… amazing. But a few of us pointed out that the Allied air force had a tad more firepower than we did, as none of us were likely to make the rank of Air Marshal anytime soon.

And that’s when Arthur proposed his own plan: A chosen one. We would create a messiah, the flame incarnate, one who could usher in this new world, and lead us in what Diego called “The Scoured Earth.”

When we finally decided, it was Eileen Montague who came forward as a volunteer. She was five months pregnant at the time, and had already taken care of the father in the usual manner of our little congregation. Some objected, said that unless the child was conceived of the flame, it could never be a true incarnation. But they had no idea of how such a conception could possibly even work, so it was decided that it would have to be enough to birth the child by fire.

We burned down five acres of woodland to create the site. At the center of the blackened, ash-covered forest we built a pyre so high and strong the flame would be clear for miles, and so cunningly built it would catch in moments. Before it, the great bowl of pure water for Asag’s scalding baptism. And in the center of pyre, a hollow, where Eileen was to lay.

We prayed, and sacrificed, and anointed her body with holy oil and a crown of kindling. I protested the last one, felt we could do better than to ape the Christians, but I was shouted down.

At last, the hour was at hand, and as the first contractions started, Arthur struck a match. The fire was so immediate, so intense, that I was almost brought to my knees, the light of the pyre so bright for a second before it turned inwards, robbed of its glow and comfort, and turned entirely into blistering and unbearable heat.

It covered Eileen in a second, flesh blackening and cracking, lips parting in a scream that was all at once agony and joy and terror and communion, as layer after layer of skin and muscle and bone were one by one destroyed by the force of the flames, until at last nothing remained of her but ash and bone.

And on top of that, sleeping peacefully among the fire, a baby. Untouched, unharmed, and to our eyes, alight with a burning divinity.

We baptized her with the boiling water of Asag and named her Agnes, as had been her mother’s final request. But, raising a messiah, as it turns out, is a lot more challenging than creating one. The sacrifices we fed Agnes worked fine, and maintaining her as a vessel of the Lightless Flame proved no real problem at all. But dealing with her as a child was far tougher.

She was quiet, considerate, but prone to fits of violent rage, which, while not unexpected given what burned inside her, still made living in a single location for any length of time untenable. She could not be allowed near other children for fear of discovery, could not be left alone for any significant length of time, and any who were not directly blessed were often unable to survive even an hour in her company. We even lost a few members whose blessings proved… insufficient.

Arthur tried to frame all this as a test of faith, and declared that those who we lost raising Agnes had been found wanting in their devotion to the Lightless Flame.

Prick.

She was just a brat.

Eventually she began to settle down, to reach equilibrium and take her lessons more to heart. She became studious, quiet, seemed to accept and acknowledge her destiny, her duties as our chosen one, and at times she even spoke dreamily of the Scoured Earth and the pain of the world to come. Her strength was growing by the day, and even some of our most devout could not touch her for more than a few seconds.

There was some division among us as to the best course of action, something that will surely not surprise you at this stage. Some thought she needed to walk among normal children, interact with those who saw her as one of them. Some thought she needed to continue training her focus. And some thought we had waited long enough to strike at our enemies, and she was powerful enough already.

The compromise we came to was Hill Top Road. We knew it was a stronghold of the Web, full of other children Agnes’ age. We would supervise from a distance, but were confident she would be in no danger. The Mother of Puppets has always suffered at our hand; all the manipulation and subtle venom in the world means nothing against a pure and unrestrained force of destruction and ruin.

We were right on that front, though if we had known exactly how powerful the Web was in that place, perhaps we would have reconsidered.

I was… not one of those assigned to watch our chosen one, so I can’t say much about exactly what happened within the walls of that house, but it seems the fight scarred the place in a way far deeper than simple fire. A scar in reality, that I believe has since been compounded by the interferences of other powers.

Regardless, the effect it had on Agnes was unanticipated. As far as we could tell, she had destroyed the place utterly. And yet she remained bound to it, tied to it in some vital way. I knew when Arthur told me she had kept Raymond Fielding’s hand, that he was worried. But none of us could know what you were going to do.

Truth be told, I don’t know what you actually did do; neither Arthur nor Diego would explain it to me in detail, and Jude simply flies into a rage when it’s brought up. I assume it’s why we were waiting, biding our time for decades, unable to bring our designs to any culmination. Jude had only just joined at the time, and was - besotted with Agnes, though I couldn’t tell you if she loved her as a god, or as a woman. Or as both.

Whatever the situation, whatever you did, we were left paralyzed. Unable to go any further with our destiny, and, I was assured, unable to remove the impediment.

So we waited. Agnes had reached adulthood but would age no further, so there was no worry to that. Her fire would someday die, of course, but until then it would neither fade nor dim.

We did what we could. We found her a place to live, gave her Jude for a guardian, and provided for her material needs. And the years began to… slowly burn away.

My job was to provide for her less mundane requirements. I was to secure her sacrifices. I would spare you the details, but I do not wish to. I worked in a factory, you see, large furnaces that glow red-hot at all hours of the day and night. Eventually, enough of my superiors had suffered accidents or injuries that I had obtained a management position.

It was difficult to take the space I needed, and make the necessary adjustments, especially without anyone noticing, but eventually I was able to create a small workshop, just beneath the main furnace. It was far too hot for anyone to check, so I had my peace.

I took foreign workers, mostly, those with the fewest connections to complicate matters, and the most hopeful dreams of what their life might be. They were the ones that provided Agnes the most satisfying nourishment.

I would wait for them to be alone, and then I would catch them unawares. Melting their mouth shut was a simple matter, and the screams they were able to make with their throat alone were easily drowned out by the constantly roaring machinery.

I would drag them down to my workshop and slowly, bit by bit, I would melt them, draining the now liquid fat from their bodies, that I could later render into tallow. Their heart, their eyes, and their tongue I would scorch down to ash and mix into it for texture, while the rest I simply incinerated.

Once fully rendered, I would turn these poor souls into foul-smelling candles, the wicks twisted from whatever hair and tendons survived, didn’t ignite with any flame, instead burning with a black ember. And if you listened very closely, you could almost hear screaming.

Agnes would take them to her small, empty flat, lay them on the floor, and light them. Over the many hours these candles burned, she would crane over them, so Arthur tells me, inhaling all the agony, suffering, and loss from which they were created. Or he could have been lying to me, just keeping me busy with torture and murder so I didn’t get in the way of anything.

I don’t think I would have minded that, actually. At least I felt useful.

Aside from that, Agnes simply waited. We all did, but I think it was the hardest on her. So much fire and destruction trapped raging inside her as she simply sat, placid, waiting for… something.

Of course, none of us suspected what was actually going to sink it all. I mean, if you’d told me, I’d have laughed at you. That stupid coffeeshop twit. I honestly don’t know why Arthur allowed it, or why Jude didn’t step in; she’s usually so jealous. But Agnes - (exhale) Maybe Agnes asked them to leave him alone. Or maybe they were just surprised by her interest in this - boring, unremarkable fool. Maybe they assumed it was some long, torturous plan, and she was simply building the kindling for a bonfire of aching loss and suffering such as we had never before seen. (sigh) And I suppose, in a way, she was.

Just not the one any of us expected.

It wasn’t love; I’m sure of that. I don’t think it was even happiness. I think it was doubt. In that tiny sliver of affection lay a whole universe of doubt. The sort of doubt that the torturing flame incarnate cannot have, but that too many years spent in silent patience, followed by one clumsy flirt in a coffeeshop, could create. A tiny hairline fracture which destroys everything.

When she told us - (inhale) I have known anguish and destruction like few in this world, but the memory of that night still makes me shudder. The sadness and the grief that we felt at what we knew we had lost.

It was Agnes herself that suggested it. If we tried the ritual and failed, she said, it might be hundreds of years before we had the strength to try again. But if she ceased, not in culmination of fire, but in a cold and quiet death, perhaps her spark would return to the Lightless Flame and she could try again.

Not immediately, likely not even within my remaining lifetime, but sooner than if she burned. And so we hanged her, as she requested. All because of that most insidious of emotions: Hope.

We have allowed Jude free rein on what happens to the coffeeshop boy, though Agnes asked her not to interfere. She has not yet harmed him, but I cannot imagine what is going through her mind. The misery and pain he has brought upon himself.

For all her anger, she is not rash. And I fear her quiet consideration far more than I worry about her temper. It may be he lives the remainder of his natural life, but she will make sure he is never happy, and never without pain.

As for you, (shaky inhale) whatever you did, and whatever protection it might have afforded you is severed with Agnes’s death. Arthur has told us not to harm you yet, but this whole thing has really rather weakened his authority, and many of us are now looking towards Diego for leadership. But we shall see, I suppose.

I hope, when it is time, we may burn you forever, Gertrude.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends. (inhale) Nice to see Gertrude also used to get a lot of threats. So far, it doesn’t seem that any of them went desperately well, except for Elias, of course, but he didn’t threaten, did he, just - did it.

I’m curious to see what it was she did to derail this big ritual, because I’m sure she didn’t pay poor Jack Barnabas to fall in love with Agnes. (beat) Well, ninety percent sure.

No one’s come seeking vengeance recently, though, and looking at the details for the [Butcher’s] steel plant in Scunthorpe, it does seem like Eugene is still around, so I can only assume some sort of equilibrium was found. Given what happened when I met Jude Perry, I’m not in any rush to track him, or any of them, down myself.

Diego I assume to be Diego Molina, who Basira crossed paths with back in her Sectioned days, and Arthur - could be Arthur Nolan, though going from the head of a cult to watching over Jane Prentiss as a landlord does seem like something of a demotion. God knows. It’s not like I don’t have my own office politics to keep track of.

[HE SIGHS.]
The others are doing… better, I think. Basira’s busy doing research for something secretive, unsurprisingly, but she seems to be adjusting, to, uh… the new Daisy.

I actually like Daisy now, which is a… really weird feeling. Melanie’s quiet, but I think therapy’s helping. Haven’t seen Helen much. The door is - sometimes there, sometimes not. I haven’t knocked. I’m never going to trust it. Trust - her.

(brief pause) Trust it. And I shouldn’t. Whatever its relationship to the person who was or is Helen, assuming that I can ever know its motivations is a mistake. And that just leaves Martin, which… (long pause, inhale)

Why were we chosen? Agnes was created, crafted with a specific purpose so finely tuned that even a grain of uncertainty threatened the entirety of her being. (bitter laugh over next words) But I’m so full of doubt, it feels like there’s no room for anything else, and - (big inhale) - I’m sure Martin is the same.

Is there destiny here? Bloodlines, and - prophecies? O-Or did we just - stumble into this. Maybe… we’re the opposite of Agnes. Maybe our doubts are exactly what we need. I-If that’s the case, I’m a - an amazing chosen one. (steadying breath) Don’t know how that would work, though.

I’m just worried about Martin. (sigh, under his breath) Christ. (normal) Every other Avatar gets to have their feelings burned right out of them, but me? I’ve just got to sit in mine.

I know he said he had everything under control. (inhale) I need to trust him. Whatever he’s doing with Peter, he’s - (inhale) He knows what he’s doing. Probably. I just - I need him to be okay; I just do.

If I - knew what his plan was, if I knew what Peter was doing, if I just - (he stops, cuts himself off) Can I?

[THE LOW RUMBLE OF THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC BEGINS TO SOUND IN THE BACKGROUND. THE ARCHIVIST MAKES A FEW SOUNDS OF EFFORT, WHICH BEGIN TO GROW BOTH LOUDER AND MORE RAGGED.]
[THEN THE HIGH-PITCHED STATIC THAT RESEMBLES MICROPHONE STATIC LAYERS ITSELF ON TOP WITH ITS STRANGE, MUSICAL, NEAR-ANGELIC QUALITY, AND IT BECOMES CLEAR THAT THE ARCHIVIST IS PUTTING A LOT OF EFFORT INTO THIS BEHOLDING, AND THAT, AS IN “HEAVY GOODS,” IT IS NOT CLEAR HOW MUCH OF THIS HE IS IN CONTROL OF.]
[HE CONTINUES TO STRUGGLE THROUGH THE PROCESS, AND AS HE DOES, THE DISTINCT SQUEAKY STATIC OF PETER LUKAS BEGINS TO FADE IN AS WELL.]
[THERE’S A SOUND THAT’S DIFFICULT TO PLACE, COULD POSSIBLY BE SOME THINGS KNOCKED OFF OF THE ARCHIVIST’S DESK, BUT WHICH COULD ALSO BE THE SOUND OF A DOOR OPENING. THE ARCHIVIST GROANS.]
[THEN ALL AT ONCE, THE STATIC ALL FADES OUT; THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS TO REGAIN HIS BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
(gasping for breath) End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
BASIRA
Coffee.

[SHE SETS DOWN A CUP OF COFFEE IN FRONT OF HIM.]
ARCHIVIST
What?

BASIRA
Coffee. Drink it.

ARCHIVIST
I’m really, uh… Fine.

BASIRA
You look awful. You try drinking with Daisy again?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) She was here last night, as you know.

BASIRA
Drinking alone, then.

ARCHIVIST
It’s not a hangover. Well, not - I wasn’t drinking.

BASIRA
Drugs, then? Sick? Got some weird monster disease?

ARCHIVIST
Seriously?

BASIRA
(no-nonsense) We’ve been over this. You need to tell me stuff. Communication works both ways, you know.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS OVER HER LAST WORDS.]
ARCHIVIST
Y-Yesterday I tried something I - (slight pause) I, I deliberately tried to… Know something, like I did in the coffin, but there was too much, (he sighs) and, uh -

BASIRA
What did you find out?

ARCHIVIST
(dry laugh) Nothing. There was too much.

BASIRA
You don’t remember any of it?

ARCHIVIST
You drink the whole contents of a bar, you don’t remember what the Merlot tastes like. (sigh-adjacent sound) It just hurt.

BASIRA
Sure.

[SOME RUSTLING, AS SHE TAKES OUT SOME PAPERS.]
ARCHIVIST
What’s that?

BASIRA
Statement. You in a condition for it?

ARCHIVIST
(immediately) Yes. (long inhale) Yes, what’s this one about?

[MORE RUSTLING.]
BASIRA
Took me a while to hunt it down again, but - you remember Maxwell Rayner?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, of course; your - warehouse showdown?

BASIRA
Yeah, well, whole thing kinda stayed with me.

ARCHIVIST
Mm, I can imagine.

BASIRA
Well, there’s more history there than we thought. Capital H History.

ARCHIVIST
John Flamsteed? Basira, this is from way before the Institute!

BASIRA
The first Astronomer Royale. Had the post until his death in 1720.

ARCHIVIST
1719. He died on New Year’s Eve.

(second to realize what he’s done) Sorry, I didn’t - Can’t really help it.

[HE GIVES A SMALL LAUGH.]
BASIRA
Well, either way, he really hated the man who succeeded him. His former assistant, Edmund Halley.

ARCHIVIST
As in… Halley’s Comet, Halley?

BASIRA
Yep. And Flamsteed had a… what’s the opposite of a pet name? Like a nickname for someone you hate.

ARCHIVIST
Uhhh… I don’t -

BASIRA
(overlapping) Well, he had one of them for Halley. Called him ‘Reimer.’

ARCHIVIST
Reimer? And, and you think -

BASIRA
Names shift over the years. ‘Specially if you’re not keen on keeping the same body.

ARCHIVIST
(pure, wondrous shock) Right.

BASIRA
Just - have a read. Let me know when you’re done.

ARCHIVIST
You’re not staying?

BASIRA
Watching you do your thing? No.

[THE ARCHIVIST MAKES A SOUND THAT SOUNDS RATHER LIKE HE’S MENTALLY KICKING HIMSELF.]
ARCHIVIST
I - suppose I understand.

[AS THE DOOR CLOSES BEHIND BASIRA, HE TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
(still breathy) Right…

(stronger) Statement of John Flamsteed, taken from a partial unsent letter to Abraham Sharp, 1715. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.

Um - (flips page) Uh -

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
But my affliction in writing to you is of a wholly different character. And were I not well sure of your firm alliance and counsel, I should under no extremity impose it upon you. For I have killed a man, and barely do I have the covering of great passion for it, for I was well within my senses at the time.

You are familiar of course with my persecuter and tormentor Edmond Halley. The one so oft descending upon me as Nemesis with her sword to avenge upon my hubris. It was he, who with the president of the Royal Society, Isaac Newton, printed my catalogue of stars without my knowledge, robbing me of the fruits of my labor, turning my triumph to naught but ashes.

I have had - many a contest with the president, but I harbor little true bitterness toward him. He is a blockish creature of vanity, concerned with his appearance only, and likely to fly into an indecent heat and knavish talk at any dispute. He has no reverence for God, and I pity him the fire that awaits. But in life, my thoughts of him are simply those of disdain, and hold no corner for true hatred.

I put no such chain upon my spirit when I make my considerations of Halley, who I have long called Reimer to you in my letters, for as the odious Nicolaus Reimer persecuted the great Tycho, and ran his noble genius to exile, so, too, has my own Reimer pushed me toward ruin.

I have detailed much of his offenses in my letters to you, but as much again I have concealed within my soul and given no voice. Simply know the robbery of my celestial catalog was but the least of it.

I will admit, that in my heart, I nurtured such dreams of revenge that when they came to me the name of God felt hollow upon my lips. Another dignity stripped from me by mine enemy.

Such were the depths of the hatred that I found within myself that whereupon I would spy Reimer at the Royal Society, if I were unobserved in turn, I would to no deliberate end begin to follow him. Oft it was that I would follow his path until my better humours overtook me, or I was seen by my quarry, who would smile, and offer his insufferable greeting.

So it has been this past year, though I have never had fear he might know my intentions.

Yet this month past, it has been… much changed. Reimer’s wanderings, hitherto aimless or meandering through the gardens and pathways of the Royal Society, or the coffeeshops of Fleet Street, have of late drawn him almost out of London entirely, to a strange and shrouded wood not a league from what might draw the interests of the pompous fool with whose whims I was now well-acquainted.

And in that quiet seclusion, while I looked on in silence and astonishment, he would meet with figures both man and woman alike, with dull clothing and eyes that in the darkness of that wooded place seemed wholly black and empty. Their words were soft and impenetrable to me from the spot wherein I was concealed, but they had much impact upon Reimer, who would often stagger backwards as though struck.

They led him further through trees of gnarled and twisted woods, where the thick roof of leaves permitted not the light of moon or stars, and there they knelt around a pool so black, if it had been India ink it could have scarcely been darker. I held back a cry that threatened to force itself from my lips, for I am not so blind as to be ignorant to the practices of vile pagan exultation.

And I can describe what I saw around that pool as nothing less. And dismiss as you will my words as the shaken memory of a man appalled, but at that awful moment, their cries of worship seemed to form shapes that stirred in the water, such as I have never seen in my time upon this earth.

I fled, of course, and considered the courses such as I might pursue to relieve myself of this dreadful burden of knowledge. No longer was my concern purely for revenge upon Reimer, but a quite acute terror of the savage rites the practice of which were clearly among my peers.

I had not seen with clarity those compatriots alongside whom Reimer had joined in awful raptures, and could not state with confidence that any among the faculty to whom I might make report of his debauchery would not in turn make it known that I was telling such things of Halley, an astronomer of note, whose conduct to all others has been unimpeachable.

No. If there was to be a confrontation or action taken against Reimer, it would be I, and I alone that would have to take it.

I know it was the second of May when this took place, for it was no doubt the crowning glory that he had stolen from me that occupied his mind that eve, and caused his steps to quicken and grow careless.

Again he traced his path under that dark and hidden wood, and again I followed, quiet in my manner, keen in my observance. I cast around for other figures, but in that moment, Reimer was alone. He proceeded then, as before, to the pool of blackest water, and the clear skies of night were lost amongst the leaves. All was quiet as he gazed into that smoothed and liquid darkness.

This, I knew, was to be my chance.

I stepped from my place of concealment and began to decry him, casting my censure upon Reimer and naming before him the vile acts of pagan villainy which I had myself observed. His mute shock was but for a moment, before he let out a noise the likes of which I can scarce describe, and charged towards me, his fingers curled to claws that sought my face and eyes.

I wasted no time, and drew my small sword, and praised to God, who gifted me foresight to carry it. I struck Reimer a fierce blow to the leg. He fell, still clutching at me, and in a moment, cast my sword away into the trees and grabbed at my coat. With a fierce strength never before awakened within me, I gripped the head of my foul adversary, and forced it down, into the dark pool before us.

There I held it, the water so cold upon my skin the marks have yet to fade. And Reimer thrashed, and kicked, and made such sounds as I have never before heard of the dying.

And he was still.

I drew him up with the black water still thickly flowing from him. He was dead at my hand, and though I well knew it to be an act of defense and retribution, I felt within me a sudden terror of discovery.

I took my sword and returned to hiding in the dense growth of the forest, fearing that, should I return upon the path, my passing might be met and marked. Better to wait until I had the surety of unseen passage.

And as I waited there, the enormity of my actions settled upon me like lead, and Reimer’s dark-eyed compatriots arrived to attend him.

Seeing him prostrate and lifeless upon the ground was clearly a shock, and their distress was marked upon them. And yet there seemed no sadness or horror within their passion, but surprise and confusion, and the question they cast between them was that of what was to be done, for it seemed Reimer was vital to a task as yet unfinished.

His body was borne up by them and taken away, at the time, I believed, for burial. And when I was certain I was once again alone, I fled, leaving those infernal waters for good and all.

And were that the end of my poor story, you may well imagine my confession of such to you, for laying it in writing is an unburdening beyond what I could have foreseen. And yet it was not this that inspired in me the need to write you an account.

It was what occurred but two days past, for I was in my observatory making my notes of adjustments, as my position requires, when I was called upon, not unusually, by the president of the Royal Society. I was astonished at how cordial his conduct seemed, his temper even and his heat steady.

But it was not the attitude of the president that robbed my tongue of speech.

It was that in his visit, he was accompanied by Edmund Halley. My dear Reimer, whose body had gone cold and still in my own cruel hands.

He had - little to say, it seemed, as the president went over, once again, some - detail of my equipment, and Reimer, who was and is dead, simply watched me in solemn silence. Were it not for his handing books to the president, I should have thought him a shade or haunt, but his substance was far more than such could ever achieve.

At length, Mr. Newton took his leave, and Reimer went to follow. Before his departure, an exit that could not come too soon for my nerves, he turned towards me, and grasped me firmly by the shoulders. In my shock and fear, I offered no fight, and returned his gaze as he began to thank me.

His gratitude was so plain and sincere that I could scarce understand it as he spoke, but he repeated it again and again, thanking me for his life. For his freedom.

I stared into his eyes, and though they met mine, I saw spreading inside them the darkness and mist. Whether he be blind now, I know not, but those were not the eyes of Edmond Halley, though they were the eyes of my Reimer, the one I couldn’t destroy.

It is with this at the forefront of my thoughts that I write to you, Abraham. I know you have some small acquaintance with him, and I must warn you Halley is no longer Halley. He may appear as such, and - ape those previous observations of his own, and those more skilled, but it is not him.

Look into his eyes, and you will know. You will - know.

ARCHIVIST
(heavy inhale, hint of surprise) Statement ends. (long exhale) Right.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE, SOME TIME LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
BASIRA
So?

ARCHIVIST
So Edmund Halley was Rayner. Or, at least - whatever was inside him. You said it was dead, though.

BASIRA
I thought it was. We shot him to hell before he could, uh… pour himself into that kid.

ARCHIVIST
Hm.

BASIRA
But I mean - didn’t you say he got blown up in World War I as well?

ARCHIVIST
Ah, uh, possibly the - the details are, um - (exhale) it’s not exactly clear.

BASIRA
You don’t- Know?

ARCHIVIST
No, and I’m not about to push my luck and try to force it. Besides, I, I rarely get anything when the Dark is involved? It’s a bit of a blind spot.

BASIRA
Hm. Point is, we can’t be sure.

ARCHIVIST
Agreed.

BASIRA
You don’t know what the ritual for the Dark is, right?

ARCHIVIST
Not really, no; um, based on this and everythi - uh, something to do with the Sun, I would guess? I, um - an eclipse, maybe.

BASIRA
I don’t think so. There’s not one due for a while, and I’ve been wondering for ages - why Ny-Ålesund? I mean, sure, that far North, it gets dark for a long time, but - there’s also really long days in the summer.

ARCHIVIST
Okay.

BASIRA
But I think - Have you got a pen?

ARCHIVIST
Uhh - Yeah, i-in the drawer.

[BASIRA OPENS THE DRAWER.]
BASIRA
Ah, Jon. What’s this?

[SHE PICKS SOMETHING UP.]
ARCHIVIST
Hm? Oh. That’s… I, th, uh - that’s my rib.

BASIRA
(Pythagorean theorem, volume of a cone) Right.

[SHE PUTS IT BACK.]
ARCHIVIST
Yep.

BASIRA
And… the jar of ashes.

ARCHIVIST
(stress.exe) Not - not, m,mine - I mean, it belongs to me, I, I, I guess, but it’s not - stationery is in the, uh, other drawer.

[SOUNDS AS THE STATIONERY IS RETRIEVED.]
BASIRA
Right, thanks.

ARCHIVIST
Mm.

[THE DRAWER IS CLOSED.]
BASIRA
Okay.

[RUSTLE OF PAPER.]
BASIRA
Now… Look here.

ARCHIVIST
R-Right, ye-yes, I, I know where it is.

BASIRA
I don’t think Ny-Ålesund is the ritual location.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
I think it’s a, a staging ground.

ARCHIVIST
For what?

BASIRA
The darkest place on the surface of the Earth. The North Pole, during the winter solstice.

ARCHIVIST
I hope you’re not suggesting that Santa works for the People’s Church.

BASIRA
(exasperated) Jon. It’s eleven weeks of pitch-black night, as far from the Sun as you can get on the planet.

ARCHIVIST
Alright. So, why haven’t they done it already?

BASIRA
I think they were waiting for Rayner to get his new body. But my source is telling me now that they’re gearing up for something.

ARCHIVIST
These… sources, are they same ones that sent you to the Australian Outback while I was… burying myself alive?

[BASIRA SIGHS OVER HIS WORDS.]
BASIRA
Their info is normally good.

ARCHIVIST
(yeah, right) Hmm.

BASIRA
There is one more thing that might convince you.

ARCHIVIST
They have an eldritch ball of some sort of manifested dark matter that’s going to be the focus of the ritual.

BASIRA
I thought you said you couldn’t Know things about them.

ARCHIVIST
I can still read. Actually, you should - probably see that stateme - you know what, no, later. (heavy inhale) So what’s the plan?

BASIRA
I’m getting us passage on a boat heading up there.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
I bring all the guns from Daisy’s old stash, you bring the spooks you used to mess up that delivery guy.

[LONG PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
What - That’s it? Christ, I thought my plans were half-assed.

BASIRA
It’s all about when we go.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t follow.

BASIRA
Summer solstice is the 21st of June. So, we leave in a fortnight.

[THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS TO TAKE A HEAVY BREATH AS SHE SPEAKS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
And should arrive about a week before. No danger of sunset or darkness for a long time. Stands to reason that they’ll be at their weakest.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. Is Daisy coming?

BASIRA
(short pause) No.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. I, I just thought -

BASIRA
We’ve talked about it. If the Hunt takes her again, we don’t know if she’s coming back. And neither of us want that.

ARCHIVIST
No, o-o-o-of course. And I, I don’t imagine Melanie would be keen to come.

BASIRA
She wasn’t.

ARCHIVIST
Why am I always the last to know about these things?

BASIRA
By this point, I just assume the Eyeball tells you.

ARCHIVIST
That would imply it tells me anything useful. Now I’m stuck knowing how your year eight PE teacher died.

BASIRA
Miss Peterson?

ARCHIVIST
Pancreatic cancer. If you’re interested.

BASIRA
I - wasn’t?

ARCHIVIST
(struggles for a moment) No - no, o-of course not.

[HE CLEARS HIS THROAT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Alright, so just - me and you, then. (sigh) I don’t suppose you could get some of the team that helped you take Rayner down last time.

BASIRA
Oh yeah, sure. I’ll just drop them a message.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
You know, we’ve actually got a group chat going called ‘British Cops who love to do extrajudicial spook killings on foreign soil.’

[MORE SIGHING.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
I’ll just see if they’re free Saturday -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Yes, yes, alright! Alright. (sigh) You’re sure about this?

BASIRA
No. But if I’m right, this is the best chance we’re going to get. And I can’t do it alone.

ARCHIVIST
Okay, then. (inhale of bolstered confidence) Let’s do it.

[EXHALE.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[ECHOES OF A SHIP’S HOLD]
[OCEAN GOING SOUNDS ARE CLEARLY AUDIBLE THROUGHOUT]
ARCHIVIST
Any better?

BASIRA
[Nauseously] Not really.

ARCHIVIST
You were the one that suggested we go by boat.

BASIRA
Didn’t think I, urgh… [sniffs] I haven’t really done proper boats before.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm. Hold on.

[FOOTSTEPS RING ON METAL]
Excuse me?

SHIPHAND
Yeah?

ARCHIVIST
Do you know when we’re scheduled to arrive?

SHIPHAND
Captain reckons two days.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

[FOOTSTEPS RING ON METAL]
ARCHIVIST
He says another two days.

BASIRA
Yeah, I heard. Thanks.

What?

ARCHIVIST
The tape recorder.

[SUDDEN INHALATION FROM BASIRA]
BASIRA
Get ready. Any idea what’s coming?

ARCHIVIST
N-No… No, I-I don’t think that’s it.

BASIRA
It’s not recording for nothing.

ARCHIVIST
No, I… I think…

[Calling out] Excuse me?

SHIPHAND
Yeah?

[FOOTSTEPS APPROACH]
ARCHIVIST
[Interestedly] You…

SHIPHAND
Uh…

BASIRA
John?

ARCHIVIST
You used to work for Salesa.

SHIPHAND
What? You— -Who did?

I don’t know what you’re talking about.

ARCHIVIST
Mikaele Salesa. You used to work on his ship.

SHIPHAND
I don’t know you.

ARCHIVIST
[Archly] But I know you.

BASIRA
John…

ARCHIVIST
Floyd Matharu. Served on the Dorian from 2011 to 2014. With Salesa.

BASIRA
John, I’m not sure about this.

ARCHIVIST
I am.

Tell me what happened.

FLOYD
Wh-What is this?

ARCHIVIST
Whenever you’re ready.

FLOYD (STATEMENT)
A-Alright. Sure.

He… H-He w-was a good boss, you know? I worked for him for three years, and… treated us well. He never lied to us about the sort of thing he was into. He didn’t exactly volunteer specifics, but we all knew what we were doing wasn’t legal, and we trusted him because he knew what he was doing.

It was a weird ship to be on, though, and not just because everyone was always gossiping about whatever the latest haunted cargo was. A lot of it was because we had a-a captain, a man named Gaultier, but he reported to Salesa. Normally, if the captain’s working for someone they’re going to be on the ship all the time; they’ll just be organising things, so there’s no worries about who’s in charge, you just obey the captain. But Salesa always travelled with us, keeping an eye on whatever he was moving that day. It felt like… it felt like he was a part of the crew, even though he didn’t actually have a job to do. Always felt a bit uncomfortable when the captain was giving orders and he was there. I could sometimes feel Captain Gaultier looking to him for support or confirmation, and that always slightly undermined our confidence in him. It wasn’t a problem, not really, and Salesa never threw his weight around, never contradicted the captain in front of us or anything. It was a weird dynamic.

Way the others talked about it, he’d been at this for a long time, decades at least, and when I sailed with him it was clear he knew exactly what he was doing. He was the only one ever allowed in the cargo bay during a voyage.

I only saw one person try to break that rule, Jésus, a nasty piece of work we picked up in Colombia, and who clearly thought he smelled an opening. Salesa was a big guy, you know, but he never really made anything of it. He always used to say he needed a crew to follow him out of trust, not fear. But he didn’t have a problem using his size against Jésus when he found him. He threw the little rat overboard without a second’s hesitation, and there was nobody on that ship unhappy he did it. They’d all seen what could happen when someone else got in the cargo bay.

My last voyage with him was the one that killed him. Seven years ago; I still have nightmares sometimes. Tried to escape it, but some things follow you no matter where you go. A smarter person might have stayed off the water, but this job, it’s all I’ve ever really known. So here we are.

It was an odd time, I remember. I don’t know exactly what was different but the whole mood of the ship was off. Kind of sour, somehow. I think it must have been Salesa. Everything always kind of… reflected him. You know people like that? When he was happy, satisfied, everything seemed to run smooth. When he was angry, everyone would be on edge, irritable. But right then? He was tired. Everyone could tell. The man had been doing this job non-stop as long as any of us could remember, and he was clearly starting to feel it. Once found him poring over an old photo album. The ship was there in the pictures, but a different captain, different crew. I asked him who they were, and he just looked at me, eyes sunken like hadn’t slept, and for a second I felt like he was seeing someone else, not me. But then he just shrugged. “Dead now,” he said, “doesn’t really matter.”

That was about a month before Gantulga died. It should have been a nice simple job. I helped load the box under Salesa’s supervision, and it was barely a few metres across. Dantez told me it was a carpet that he’d bought from an old Burmese beggar woman who fed lost children to a crocodile head, but I never paid any attention. He liked to make up wild stories about whatever it was that Salesa had bought. It was light enough, though, so I thought he might have been right about it being a rug. I don’t know what went wrong. He was always so careful. I didn’t even usually think about the cargo during the trip itself, but this time I didn’t have much choice.

Gantulga and I were both off-duty that night. Played some cards, I lost some money, and we both headed to our bunks. Nothing unusual, nothing worth being burned into my mind. Except that three hours later, I was woken up by the sound of Gantulga screaming his lungs out. I ran over to him, trying to see what was going on. And he was being attacked, that much was clear, but there wasn’t anyone there. The thing that was grabbing him, trying to reach down his throat and pull him apart… it was a pattern. Diamonds and swirls and colours that seemed to imprint itself upon his skin even as it pushed itself messily into his nose and mouth. What it was made of, I couldn’t say; the way it moved and shifted made my head throb with pain. I screamed, staggered back and fell, hitting my head on the table. I can’t have been out for more than a few seconds, but when I opened my eyes he was there, dragging the thrashing body of Gantulga through the door and up onto the deck. I followed slowly, unsteadily, but got there just in time to see Salesa throw both him and what looked like a blank rug over the side and into the ocean. Then he collapsed against the railing, a look of intense exhaustion passing over his face, and I left him there.

He was drunk for the next two days, and we kept sailing on towards Cape Town. We no longer had anything to deliver there, but no-one was really sure what else to do. Whenever there’d been similar disasters before, Salesa was quick to make a new plan, let know Captain Gaultier know what the next steps were. It was one of the reasons the crew trusted him so much. He just always seemed to know what we needed to do next.

This time, though… felt different. He was distant, quiet. His words, when he spoke to you at all, were blurred with alcohol and regret. Nobody knew what the plan was, so we just kept going.

When we hit port, he disappeared for a while, nobody was sure where, and even when he showed back up he was spending his time on the phone. We all assumed he was trying to arrange the next job, but he had this… wild energy I’d never seen in him before, and it scared me. Whatever he was planning, it wasn’t going to be like the others. We were sure about that.

Finally, he calls us all together. The captain’s there, but he doesn’t look happy. Salesa starts talking, says he’s been doing this too long, he’s getting slow. Says he’s retiring. So far, so sad, but not unexpected at that point. Then he says he wants to send us off with a proper payday, that there’s one last job he wants us to do. Very dangerous, very illegal. There are murmurs, questions, some angry, some confused. Salesa says anyone who doesn’t want to be a part of it, they can stay in port with a decent severance and find another job. A few take him up on that, and the rest of us decide to stay, though the captain’s clearly not happy this is costing him experienced crew. Still, he doesn’t speak up. I can see in his eyes the greed’s got him, like it’s got the rest of us. It’s not like we were underpaid on the Dorian, but there were rumours about how much money Salesa was making out of all this. When someone like that says there’s going to be a big payout, you listen.

He was really cagey on the details, clearly being careful about exactly who he was telling exactly what. All I knew about what we going on were as follows: we were on our way to the Maldives, to a tiny island about a hundred kilometers south of Malé. No-one would tell me the name of the island, but in that area of the world any islands that small are usually private, though I had no idea who the owner might have been. Once there, Salesa and the four crewmembers he trusted most were going to take the small boat over to the island. We were to wait, and prepare to depart as quickly as possible as soon as they returned. He didn’t say exactly what he was expecting to happen on the island, but it wasn’t hard to guess that whatever he was retrieving, it wasn’t something he was purchasing legally. He made it clear we shouldn’t stop if we were followed or challenged by the authorities, and we should all be prepared to defend the ship should anyone attempt to board or stop us.

The three hours I stood on the deck after they left on the little boat may well have been the longest of my life. It was night, of course, and we had no lights showing, nothing that would give us away. The island was completely dark as well, and if it hadn’t been for the bright moon shining down on the dense trees and sandy beach, I might not have been able to see it at all. The sound of the boat’s engine died quickly, and I was left standing there, surrounded by silence, waiting for something to happen, full of fear over what it was I had agreed to be part of. I longed to have a drink, to close my eyes, and rest for only a second, but every nerve in my body was on alert.

When they returned, only two of the four crewmembers Salesa had taken were still with him. Questions as to what happened were met with dark looks and shaken heads. I felt the rumble of the ship beneath me almost immediately, and only got the briefest of glances at exactly what it was we were all risking our lives for.

I’ve gone over that memory so many times, trying to think what I might have missed, but even now, whenever I think of it, it just looked like an old camera with a broken lens. And then Salesa closed and locked the metal box, and carried it down into the hold as we started to sail away.

As he did so, I saw a flash out of the corner of my eye. I was on watch, so I hurried to the stern to see what was happening. There was a storm over the island. I don’t know where it came from, it can’t have been more than a minute since I’d last looked at it, an-and the skies were completely clear. But now it was covered in lightning, the rolling clouds above it dark and angry. The forked flashes came quickly, less than a second between them, and as the thunder started to hit my ears, I could see the trees of the island beginning to catch fire and burn. But there was something else. In the light of the flashing storm I could clearly see the waters around the island, and there was something there. A huge shape, a shadow surrounding it on all sides; getting darker, getting closer, coming up from deep, deep below the surface. It must have been huge, so large that the edge of it almost touched the ship, and had we been a few minutes slower I have no doubt whatever awful thing emerged that night, it would have taken us as well. Something began to break the surface as I realised the deep rumble was no longer the thunder, and I closed my eyes and fell to the deck, gripping the rail with all my might as a wave hit us from behind, propelling us away from it.

When it had finally subsided, and I could bring myself to look back, the island was gone and ocean was still.

Our journey back was a long one, but Salesa was in a far better mood than I had ever seen him. His step was light, his smile was easy, and the deep circles under his eyes seemed to be gone. He didn’t talk about what had happened on the island, nor of Christoph or Adreas, the two who had not returned. When we finally arrived at Southampton, he insisted on throwing a ridiculous party to celebrate our good fortune. The drinks flowed freely, and he walked around and shook each of us by the hand, telling us how much he would miss us in retirement and hiding his insincerity well. I do not believe there was a sober person on the Dorian when the night was over, and we slept easily. Well, the others slept easily, but they had not seen what I had seen.

I didn’t hear the explosion myself. Dantez told me about it, as it had apparently woken him and a few others of the crew. A big explosion, they said, further into the port. We staggered onto the deck and, sure enough, smoke could be seen a little way off, its source hidden behind a wall of shipping containers. There was no reason at that point to suspect it had anything to do with us, but I think somehow we all knew what it meant. That something had gone terribly wrong. Nobody could find Salesa or the captain.

We were still stood there, arguing amongst ourselves about what to do, when Captain Gaultier made his dramatic reappearance. His clothes were torn and his hair matted with blood. Before any of us could speak he commanded us to leave, to take up anchor and get out there. We did as we were ordered, and left immediately. Some tried to ask the captain about Salesa, but he just shook his head. He wasn’t making much sense. We managed to gather the two of them had left early to deliver the artefact, but something had gone wrong. There had been an argument. They had been betrayed. Salesa was dead.

The captain died soon after; the shrapnel trapped in his skull finally getting the better of him. Who they had been meeting, how exactly they had been betrayed, were secrets he took with him to the grave. The crew fragmented after that. I think a few of them managed to retain ownership of the Dorian, but they weren’t people I was close to. So I jumped ship the next chance I got. And I have tried ever since then to leave those memories behind me.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

FLOYD
[Dazed] What… what…?

ARCHIVIST
[Soothingly] You can go.

FLOYD
Erm… I, I don’t…

ARCHIVIST
Thank you Floyd. You’ve been… very helpful.

FLOYD
C—

ARCHIVIST
It’s alright, Floyd. You just… need a break.

FLOYD
Yeah… Sure.

[RINGING FOOTSTEPS DEPART]
BASIRA
What the hell was that?

ARCHIVIST
He had information about Salesa. I thought it would help.

BASIRA
Is that why you were so keen on this ship?

ARCHIVIST
I wasn’t sure. Just had a hunch there was something here.

BASIRA
And what, you thought the best way to find it was by… slurping it out of his brain?

ARCHIVIST
He didn’t exactly seem inclined to volunteer the information. Besides, you said I needed to be ready for Ny-Alesund. “Full power” I believe were your words. The statement helped.

BASIRA
And now he’s going to see you in his dreams as he relives that for the rest of his life. Because… because a tape recorder told you to do it?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Basira, he is. And I am sorry about that. But we needed it.

Anyway you’re the one who wants to be like Gertrude. You think she’d give a damn about a few bad dreams?

BASIRA
No.

ARCHIVIST
No. She got the job done, and didn’t care about the cost.

BASIRA
But I thought you did.

ARCHIVIST
…

I had to know, Basira.

BASIRA
It wasn’t right.

ARCHIVIST
You could have stopped me.

…

But you wanted to know as well, didn’t you?.

…

Get some rest. Two days yet.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, SOMEWHERE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THERE’S A CLOCK TICKING STEADILY IN THE BACKGROUND THROUGHOUT.]
MARTIN
Uh,uh, right, so…? W,What happened?

[THE VOICE OF THE PERSON TO WHOM HE’S ADDRESSING THIS QUESTION IS FEMININE, IN THE MID-TONES. THEY CLEARLY ARE A BIT… APPREHENSIVE IN COMING TO THE INSTITUTE.]
STATEMENT GIVER
I don’t know, a - Look, I-I just need to, to talk to a manager, or something?

MARTIN
Okay, uh, well, uh, yeah, actually; I’m a - I’m a manager. Go on.

STATEMENT GIVER
Okay, well… (sigh) I’d like to - to talk to you about one of your staff.

MARTIN
(slowly) Go on…

STATEMENT GIVER
There’s, uh, there’s been… I’m being harassed.

MARTIN
O-kay, um. Just, uh, just let me grab a form. Uh… one second.

[HE FLIPS THROUGH SOME PAGES OVER THE FOLLOWING:]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Oh, okay, okay, um… What - Would you mind telling me what happened? Uh, what they did?

STATEMENT GIVER
He.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Did he look like he hadn’t slept in about a week?

[BEFORE HE EVEN FINISHES HIS SENTENCE, THE ABOUT-TO-BE STATEMENT GIVER MHMS.]
STATEMENT GIVER
Yep, uh,

MARTIN
(overlapping) Right.

STATEMENT GIVER
He’s been… Yeah, I think he’s been, eh… following me? Kind of.

MARTIN
Yeah, I see. Well - he’s not here at the moment, so, I mean - (inhale) why don’t you tell me what happened?

STATEMENT GIVER
Look, (sigh) I dunno… I-It’s just kind of weird.

MARTIN
Well… (small laugh) Y’know, uh, weird is what we do.

[THE STATEMENT GIVER LAUGHS AS WELL. IT’S AWKWARD, AND MORE THAN A LITTLE OUT OF NERVES.]
STATEMENT GIVER
Okay…

MARTIN
Just - Just tell me what happened. Please. Um. I - I won’t judge.

STATEMENT GIVER
Alright. Uh - So, you - (she sighs) You’ve, uh - You’ve got to understand my job, okay? Uh, I work for Thames Water? Uh - mainly pipes and stuff - like, I - I mean, I’m a qualified engineer, but you know, most places it’s just manual stuff, like digging, and replacing pipe - Sometimes I’ve got to - You know, there are actual sewers involved. (faster) It’s not really [unintelligible] myself enough, you know? Yeah, but who does. We don’t all get to build Formula 1 engines. Anyway. Look, it’s fine. I actually get paid quite a bit more than the rest of the crew, because, you know, if there’s, if there’s something that goes wrong, or needs an engineer, here I am!

Sorry. Um. The point is that I, I work underground. Did some work underground. (explosive sigh) Look, I know - I know this doesn’t have anything to do with - just - (shaky inhale) About five years ago, we were doin’ some work under Kentish Town. It was pretty nasty. Do you know what a fatberg is? No - uh - it - Don’t worry; Don’t look it up - Seriously, don’t. You know? It was just - It was a bad job. They had to spend a whole while down there l -, and now I don’t know if - there was something with us, and, and the work we were doing - Or maybe just the brickwork wasn’t right anymore; maybe it was rotten, or, or unstable, or - or the place - well, the place kinda collapsed on me.

You know? It’s just - one moment I’m stood there, torch in hand, and the next I’ve got a shooting pain all up my arm, and I can feel god knows how much rubble on top of me, and it’s absolutely pitch dark, I mean -

Yeah. (short, manic laugh) I don’t need to tell you it, look - I’ve - I’ve never been so scared; it was like - the world went away. Must have been a full five seconds I thought I was dead.

Excuse me.

MARTIN
It’s alright. Just - take your time.

STATEMENT GIVER
Yeah. (shaky breath) Yeah.

Well… I don’t know how long I was down there. Well - Well, I do. It was… three hours. They told me. After. But it felt like… God, it felt like it could have been weeks. I never had a, a great sense of time, and just… gone. Everything. Every bit of light or sound or anything, that changed, that said time was passing. There was nothing.

Before that, I,I never really thought about time, you know? But now… yeah. But I was lying there, panicking, screaming, just trying to make any noise, any movement, that didn’t hurt like hell. And I - Okay. I felt something. No, I felt someone grab my ankle.

At first it was great; I had this, this huge wave of relief, right? Someone had found me; they were getting me out.

It wasn’t. It was cold, right? Like - like old stone? Or, or wet sand. It felt like - rough and, and, like the fingers weren’t - I don’t know, they felt like they weren’t in the right places? And then I started thinking, and - I realized something - the way, it was, it was grabbing me, holding my leg, there was - (big inhale, shudder) It had to have been coming upwards. From below me. And there was no one else down there when that tunnel collapsed. Absolutely no one. I’m sure.

So then… I start screaming again. And kicking, thrashing about. It hurts, but - I mean, I’m scared out of my mind, but th-the hand, it just grips, tighter, and I can feel its f,fingernails, just - I,It - It started pulling. Just pulling down, dragging me down into the earth, and - yeah, it - The - I, I don’t know, just - this close to breaking, just absolutely shattering, and - and then a slab of stone came away in front of me, and there was daylight, and Abby - one, one of the work crew, was staring at me, and, and yeah.

Just like that, it was - gone.

But the bruise stuck around. Horrid, muddy bruises where the fingers had grabbed me.

So. It-It took a long time to get over that. I mean - That’s not weird, right? I mean, it was a bad time, you know - it stays with you. I signed off, what, probably about six months, with the injuries? I had really bad, uh, nightmares. Claustrophobia, I mean, obviously, right? But, uh, but I did my physio, you know, talked wi - with the counselor they gave me. Look, I did everything I was supposed to, and, and yeah, I - I guess I was fine. You know, once the bruises were gone - well, I mean, it’s easy to blame memory, right? (she laughs, nervously) You know, hallucination, all the - classic shite you tell yourself. Look, life went back to normal, I - I was fine. Until - about two weeks ago.

MARTIN
And that was when you met J - Wh - uh, one of our employees.

STATEMENT GIVER
That’s when he showed up. Uh - You know the coffeeshop, uh, just next to [Pinnacle]? Uh, th-the nice one. Well, I actually had - had a date there, you know, cute guy I met online, too sporty, which, [joke] I like, look, it - it doesn’t matter; Anyway - I get a latte, and, and sit down, waiting for, uh - Grant? I want to say Grant. Or- Ga-Gareth? Gary? Anyways, look, he’s running late, and, and I’m just reading, and there is this… creep in the corner- your guy. He just… keeps staring at me, like- oh, properly staring, like it is super intense. And, and real… weird?

Like he knows me, but I sure as hell do not know him. I - I try to ignore him, look, I just - I just read my book. And everytime I look up - there he is. Watchin’ me. You know, I’m about to say something, you know, like wh - (she splutters) When in comes Gary - Gareth - Gavin - and suddenly, hey! It’s a date. And I really didn’t want his first impression of me to be, you know, me yelling at some creeper in the corner, so I just… swapped chairs, so that I’ve got my back to your… colleague, and get on with it.

It didn’t really matter, you know, in the end; Gareth was, uh, was a bust, you know; not like - you know. I mean. He - he was fine, I guess, but it’s just nothing really there between us, you know - just a nice boring coffee with a kind old man. Took about an hour, and he clearly wasn’t feeling it either, so we, you know, we just called it. I mean, I think we actually shook hands, when he left, which, I mean, tells you something, right?

So, look, I’m packing up, all done, and, and I just - I just sort of turn, you know? Just to check if he’s still there - and he is standing right behind me. Like, like a few inches from my face? Look, it’s messed up! And I start to ask him, you know, what the hell, man, you know, like -? But he just starts talking. Slowly. But real intense. He says he works here, at the - the Magnus Institution, and I say what even is that, and he says he wants my story.

He says he needs to hear what happened to me, and I - I want to tell him to, to go away; I, I wanted to, to kick him and run. But - I - (sigh) I sit down. And I start to tell him - everything. About the job, about the collapse, a-about the hand - And more than I told you, even, and as I do, it - it’s like I’m there again. Like I can feel it grab my ankle, I, a,a cold, dead hand, and I just can’t stop talking, like I cannot shut up.

MARTIN
A-a. Are you alright?

STATEMENT GIVER
No! No, I’m not! Of course I’m not - It felt like - Like I was throwing up all those feelings again, and I wanted to, to scream, but instead I just sat and calmly told him my life story, and he just watched me. His eyes, like - His eyes were li-like drinking in every fragment of my misery. I can’t - It - (pause) And then it was over. And he looked - He looked at me like he’d just eaten, like, a perfectly cooked steak. You know what he said, he said “Thank you.” Thank you, just like that, like - like reliving the worst parts of my whole life were just a bit of a favor that I’d done him.

And then he left, and, and I-I just sat there, and cried for a while. (sniff) That wasn’t the end.

MARTIN
He - You’ve seen him since?

STATEMENT GIVER
(shaky) No. Not - But kinda. I feel like I do. I’ve been - dreaming of that tunnel again. Nightmares. Oh, god - awful nightmares. Nightmares, where the, where the hand keeps pulling, and I go deeper and deeper and, and deeper into - (shaky inhale) It takes me places I do not want to go. And he’s there the whole time, just… watching me. Watching me scream and thrash and - (inhales again) He’s all eyes. He’s all eyes. (inhale, less shaky) Look. I know that’s not - (half-hearted laugh) That is my brain. I’m not blaming him for, for being in my dreams. You know, I guess I can’t.

[SHE SNIFFS AGAIN.]
That’s absurd, right? It’s no - But I feel like I’m seeing him when I’m awake, as well? I’ve been- I’ve been having a lot of problems, since he talked to me - well, since I talked to him. (she swallows) Since I told my story. Th-The claustrophobia? It’s back, you know, worse than it ever was, and I can’t do my job. I have these, these screaming panic attacks every time I try, and - and what am I supposed to do? It feels like every time I’m even slightly underground, I -

Can’t even go into a shop basement anymore without feeling that - hand. Every time I do, every time I get that - panic just rising up my throat, I see him.

[SOMETHING DRIPS IN THE BACKGROUND.]
STATEMENT GIVER (CONT’D)
He’s there. Not when I look properly. But just at the edge. The corner of my eye. And he’s got - well, maybe, maybe it’s just me; maybe I just - I met him once, in a coffeeshop, and he was a creep, and it messed me up. But that’s enough. Right? That is enough. So, (exhale) So I want to put in a complaint, like, like a proper complaint. Look, I don’t want to go to the police. I mean, I doubt they would - They wouldn’t even, you know, let me get this far, now would they, but- (sniff) Sorry. So, thanks, I guess.

MARTIN
Okay, um. Alright, well - (he clicks a pen, sighs)

Firstly, I’m re - I’m really sorry that this happened. Um, in - in terms of next steps -

STATEMENT GIVER
(overlapping) Just - I just - I don’t know- Y-You know, talk to him, I guess? Just tell him, like, like I mean that - it’s not okay. You know, right - I’m not - I don’t know what he did, but you know, he can’t just go around and well, you know, just keep doing -

MARTIN
(cutting her off, gently) Right. I - I understand.

STATEMENT GIVER
Good! (short pause) Well - Y - I just, I don’t want to see him again. Ever.

[SOME RUSTLING AND FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN
Wait, h-hold on, no, I just need to -

STATEMENT GIVER
(overlapping) No! That’s it - That’s - my - complaint! You know? I, I - I can’t. This place - I - I can’t be here. I have to -

[THEY OPEN THE DOOR.]
STATEMENT GIVER
Bye!

MARTIN
Uh - No - Uh, but you didn’t give me your -

[THE DOOR SLAMS. THEY’RE GONE.]
[SILENCE.]
MARTIN
…name.

[HE SIGHS HEAVILY, MESSES WITH THE FORM.]
MARTIN
What the hell do I do with that? I mean, christ, Jon, that’s - that’s not okay! Oh, that ca - that can’t - (he cuts himself off) I mean, it’s not him, is it. Not - not really. It’s - what, addiction, instinct, maybe m-mind control, something like that? I - can’t believe he’d choose to do something like that. No, no, I - I can’t think like that, though, I, I can’t let myself, because if, if he’s already gone, then all of this is just - (cuts off again, heavy, weary sigh)

Th-The worst part of it is I don’t even want to talk to him about it. I just - I suppose I’m just getting comfortable with the distance. Cut off. (short, humorless laugh) Lonely. (inhale) Mind you, Peter’s not wrong. It really is easier than actually just trying to communicate with people. I should probably try and get him this tape, let him know what happened, that someone came in to - (sigh)

But then, would that just come across as an accusation? Because I don’t want to - and then, then I guess he’d hear this bit as well, so - I - it - I -

What do I do?

[THE CLOCK TICKS ON. FOR A FEW MOMENTS THERE IS SILENCE, AND THEN THERE IS A SOFT KNOCK AT THE DOOR.]
[MARTIN INHALES.]
MARTIN
Go away.

[THE KNOCKING CONTINUES, A LITTLE MORE INSISTENT. MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
(to whoever’s outside) Come in!

[THE DOOR OPENS AND DAISY ENTERS.]
DAISY
(soft) Hey.

MARTIN
(confused) Hi?

DAISY
Do you mind?

MARTIN
Can - Can I help you…?

DAISY
I - I saw someone come out, so I - I thought that, you know.

MARTIN
Do - Do you want something?

DAISY
Ju-Just ignore me. Continue with - whatever.

[SHORT PAUSE.]
MARTIN
…Are you alright?

DAISY
Yeah. Just, uh, a bit empty around here, you know?

MARTIN
Not really.

DAISY
Melanie’s out, and - (sigh) Jon and Basira are still off. Bit worried. But they can take care of themselves, you know?

MARTIN
(tight) Again, not really. (short laugh) No one really talks to me anymore.

DAISY
‘Cause they reckon you’re working for the bad guy?

MARTIN
Pretty much. Don’t you?

DAISY
Oh, I mean, you’re definitely working for something evil, but - so are we.

MARTIN
(inhale) Yeah. Seems there’s plenty to go around, these days. (pause) It doesn’t bother you?

DAISY
Didn’t use to.

MARTIN
And now?

DAISY
Bothers me less than trying to go alone. At least - now it’s on my terms, better than being blackmailed into it.

MARTIN
(another humorless laugh) Yeah, I guess. (brief pause) They told you about Elias, right?

DAISY
Yeah. Basira said. Don’t like him being alive. Trying not to think about it too much. Don’t want to get too angry, start to - hear the blood.

MARTIN
…Sure.

DAISY
Can’t hear his lies from prison, though, so - that’s something.

MARTIN
I thought you believed him. You were doing all of his dirty work.

DAISY
Well, wasn’t willing to call his bluff. Not the same thing as believing. Just too big of a risk.

MARTIN
Not for Melanie.

DAISY
Well, maybe she was the only one with any sense. Even if he was telling the truth, (sigh) If we all… died… there are worse things.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
How was it?

DAISY
Don’t wanna talk about it.

MARTIN
I listened to your old statement. Wasn’t your partner down there?

DAISY
Yeah. Didn’t find him.

MARTIN
You don’t want to go get him?

DAISY
(heh) I’m not going back.

MARTIN
(vaguely smug) Hm, I’d have thought you’d have at least tried, or -

DAISY
(overlapping) I said. I don’t want to talk about it.

MARTIN
I know. Not nice being interrogated, is it?

DAISY
(inhale) I - Oh.

MARTIN
Yeah.

[PAUSE.]
DAISY
I’m sorry, Martin.

MARTIN
It’s alright. Wasn’t you. (he inhales) Not really.

DAISY
No, it was. I hate a lot of what I did back then; doesn’t mean I’m not responsible for it, doesn’t mean it wasn’t me.

MARTIN
(exhales) Anyway. So what’s this field trip they’re on?

DAISY
They, uh… they didn’t tell you?

MARTIN
(ha) No, I - What. Daisy, where have they gone?

DAISY
You know that town in Norway?

MARTIN
What? I - Wai - What? You don’t mean Ny-__Ålesund__?!

DAISY
Yyyyeah. They reckon there’s a ritual they need to, you know -

[MARTIN SIGHS IN THE BACKGROUND AS SHE SPEAKS.]
MARTIN
Yeah, but - Peter didn’t even tell me -

[HE STARTS OPENING AND SHUFFLING THROUGH DRAWERS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I don’t believe this!

DAISY
Sorry. Shouldn’t have said anything.

MARTIN
No, no, it’s - thank you; I just - For god’s sake, can he not stay safe for like, like ten minutes?

DAISY
I don’t think that’s an option for him anymore.

MARTIN
Yeah, I mean, sure - (slams a drawer shut) - But he just - He just doesn’t think. He always just immediately charges straight off into danger with whatever - whatever half-assed plan occurs to him at the time; I don’t get it!

DAISY
What’s to get?

MARTIN
What?

DAISY
I-I mean, it’s pretty standard stuff.

MARTIN
What?

DAISY
(coughs lightly) You used to see it all the time, back in the force, especially with the Sectioned. Not like there’s normal trauma, you know? But it’s pretty common. The most important thing becomes control, engaging on your own terms. Even when it’s stupid or dangerous. Anything to not feel helpless.

MARTIN
Oh, god.

DAISY
And of course, for Jon, there’s survivor’s guilt in there, too. He thinks he’s not human. Makes him very… self-destructive.

MARTIN
Yeah, well. We’ve all had trauma.

DAISY
And everyone’s changed.

MARTIN
Yeah. (long inhale, exhales as he speaks) I suppose. You’re - You’re pretty observant, you know.

DAISY
Detective, remember?

MARTIN
Yeah, you did mention. Would have thought Basira would’ve had more sense, though.

DAISY
When Basira and I were partners, I’d see this happen sometimes. She can read a situation like no one I know, always seems to know the right move, but for all her research, she never wants to put a plan together. I think she just hates all the… unknowns, the… variables. (sigh) Contingencies. If she spots an advantage, she’ll grab it, and trust herself to figure out the details as she goes.

MARTIN
(heh) Hm.

DAISY
It’s worked so far.

MARTIN
I mean. (soft exhale) I guess. Still sounds really dangerous.

DAISY
Ye-ah… Wanted to go with them, protect them, but… (soft shaky breath) Life’s always more complicated than that, isn’t it?

MARTIN
Not really.

DAISY
(inhale) You recording, or?…

MARTIN
Hm? Uh - Oh - No, No there was - hang on -

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. PEOPLE’S CHURCH RESEARCH FACILITY, NY-ÅLESUND, NORWAY]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[IN THE BACKGROUND, THERE IS A STEADY RACKET OF - WHAT EXACTLY, IT IS UNCLEAR, BUT SOMETHING. IT SOUNDS RATHER LIKE A DRYER WITH A PAIR OF SHOES INSIDE.]
BASIRA
Sure it’s this one?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[A CLICKING NOISE - FLASHLIGHT?]
ARCHIVIST
Tape recorder thinks so, too.

BASIRA
Right. Something’s coming, then?

ARCHIVIST
Could be.

BASIRA
No windows. Guess that makes sense. We still alone?

ARCHIVIST
I never said we were. Just said I couldn’t see anybody.

BASIRA
(noise of understanding) Oh, I thought you meant, like, See see.

ARCHIVIST
Oh - No.

BASIRA
We need to figure out proper terms for this. (background noises intensify) What are you doing?

ARCHIVIST
Closing the door.

BASIRA
Leave it open. We need as much light as possible, and I’m not seeing any bulbs.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[THE CLICK OF THE FLASHLIGHT AGAIN. THE BACKGROUND NOISE IS GONE BY THIS POINT, AND WE HEAR THEIR FOOTSTEPS AS THEY BEGIN TO WALK.]
BASIRA
Eyes peeled.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Was that a joke?

BASIRA
Yeah.

[SILENCE.]
BASIRA
Any clue where everyone is?

ARCHIVIST
Your guess is as good as mine.

BASIRA
Well, my guess is an ambush.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. Everyone back at the research base seemed pretty sure this place was empty.

BASIRA
And you believe them?

ARCHIVIST
They weren’t lying.

BASIRA
Wait - You - Did your -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Oh, yeah, no, I don’t think they noticed.

BASIRA
So they were serious. It’s been empty for, what, a year?

ARCHIVIST
Bit more. As far as they knew, anyway.

BASIRA
So, what, this was another waste of time? (under her breath) I’m gonna kill that son of a bitch -

ARCHIVIST
No, I - (inhale) I think it’s here. I - I, I can feel it, like a - hole in my mind.

BASIRA
They just left it here.

ARCHIVIST
I - maybe. (shaky half-laugh) Kinda wish Daisy was here.

[SILENCE, BUT FOR THE FOOTSTEPS. THEN THEY, TOO, STOP.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Basira?

BASIRA
Yeah?

[FOOTSTEPS RESUME.]
ARCHIVIST
Sorry. (shaky inhale) I know this isn’t - BEHIND YOU!

BASIRA
Down!

[BASIRA FIRES HER GUN, AND HITS SOMEONE, WHO GRUNTS IN PAIN. AT THE SAME TIME, WE HEAR THE SOUND OF GLASS SHATTERING - LIKELY THE BULB INSIDE BASIRA AND THE ARCHIVIST’S FLASHLIGHT.]
BASIRA
Don’t move!

[THE PERSON CONTINUES TO GRUNT IN PAIN. BASIRA AND THE ARCHIVIST MOVE CLOSER.]
[THE UNKNOWN FIGURE SPITS AT THEM.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh. Charming.

[THE PERSON STARTS BREATHING FASTER.]
BASIRA
Who are you?

[THE PERSON JUST GRUNTS ANGRILY.]
BASIRA
Jon?

ARCHIVIST
Who are you?

[THE NOW-FAMILIAR BASS COMPONENT OF THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC KICKS IN. THE PERSON HAS A BRIEF MOMENT OF RESISTANCE BEFORE THEIR NAME SLIPS OUT:]
MANUELA
(resisting) Manuela. Manuela Dominguez.

[IN THE BACKGROUND, WE HEAR THE MID-TONE RANGE OF THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC FADE OUT.]
BASIRA
Where is everybody?

MANUELA
(scoffs) Go to hell!

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Answer her.

[BIG, BOOMING STATIC AGAIN.]
MANUELA
They’re dead. Because of you.

ARCHIVIST
Me?

BASIRA
(to Jon) What did you do?

ARCHIVIST
(hey!) Nothing, I don’t think!

MANUELA
Your Institute.

ARCHIVIST
(soft) What?

MANUELA
So she sent you to finish the job?

BASIRA
Who?

MANUELA
Your Archivist -

ARCHIVIST
I -

MANUELA
- Gertrude Robinson.

ARCHIVIST
Gertrude?! I -

BASIRA
(overlapping) That doesn’t make any sense.

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… (inhale) What. Happened?

[BASS.]
MANUELA
Don’t - Don’t make me, please!

ARCHIVIST
Tell me.

[MANUELA EXHALES. THE STATIC INTENSIFIES. WE START TO GET THE MID-TONES AGAIN, AND NEARLY GET ALL THE WAY TO THE POINT WHERE THE HIGHEST SHIMMERY OVERTONE USUALLY KICKS IN.]
MANUELA
Fine!… Fine.

[THE STATIC IMMEDIATELY BEGINS TO FADE.]
MANUELA
And what do you wish to hear? Shall I tell you of the decades of preparation? Of the long wait for the eclipse? Three hundred years from the failure that birthed the thing that preached from the depths of Maxwell Rayner. The sacrifices made to birth the Dark Star that would make it all possible?

It was to be a week of night and horror, culminating in the eclipse that passed over Ny-Ålesund on the 20th of March, 2015, almost three hundred years after Halley’s eclipse passed over London. We had hundred of sacrifices prepared and ready, plunged into darkness and terror for days on end. All prepared to culminate in the unveiling of that point of purest night at the moment of the eclipse’s height.

It would open the door to a world of true and holy darkness, extinguish the sun, and take us to a place where we would be redeemed of our base and corrupt need for light and warmth.

Maxwell was here, with me, prepared for our moment of triumph, and our churches around the world were ready, in those lost and forgotten places of worship, shut up and left in shadow.

Hither Green was, I believe, where your Institute was watching, but Natalie’s efforts were but a small and meager part of the greater effort. When they collapsed, it was as nothing to the grand ritual, though… perhaps we should have seen it as the first sign of what was happening. But, we had no idea.

To begin our seven day feast, we slew the still and lightless beast, and drank of its stagnant blood, submerging the first of the sacrifices in the brackish water it had blessed with its stillness.

Maxwell plunged its claws into his chest, freeing the darkness within him, and we waited. And we sang. And we exalted in divine stillness.

The darkness was beyond anything that could be imagined, and even in my wildest experiments in the void of space, I could not have believed such a peace was possible, as I felt in the quiet whimpering terror of that place.

The sky was light, but we were well-protected, and we knew that when the sun was swallowed in eclipse, the darkness would be complete. We believed it far too late for anyone to stop us, and the crude methods of your Archivist least of all. The death of a few have never been more than an inconvenience, and that’s all she was ever really capable of.

You were not the first to try and stop us, you know. Not even within living memory. I was but newly joined when Lynette fled the church, and Maxwell had her silenced. But I remember her brute of a husband. He fed the beast for us, you know, when first he believed Lynette might still be saved. Then, later, we faithful served as his fuel to banish it.

But, not for long. That’s the thing about darkness, isn’t it? You try your hardest to eradicate, flood your surroundings with light, but it’s always there at the edges, waiting for the glow to weaken, to return and cover you forever. Robert Montauk discovered that the hard way. And someday, so will your Gertrude.

But we got so close. We touched it. There is another world, a world of still and quiet darkness, where no heat touches, and death cannot find you. You might wander beneath that empty sky of void forever, and never see a light to guide your way. No left, no right. No up or down. Only forward, into the crowded, shivering gloom.

For that night is not empty, far from it. Things move there, the sound of shuffling. Scuttling. Crawling. A scream. The fall of gentle stagnant raindrops that chills you as you try desperately to know if that is the sound of the storm… or something out there.

It is a world of the fear of darkness, and as I began to see it, I felt again that celestial terror that had not gripped my heart since first I gazed upon the pitch-black sun that I had created. The scream was mine, and it was joined by uncounted voices in fearful song. I was complete. It was so very close. We were to slice a hole in the world, and this paradise would flow through the wound like ink, smothering the sun, and all its children.

Maxwell had always had the visions, the drive. Whatever was inside him pulled him to this end, to this great undertaking, like a magnet, and I was so very honored to be his right hand. Natalie and the others followed, but they did not truly understand. Not truly, with their talk of peace and unity and Mr. Pitch. A friendly name, to try and hide from a concept they couldn’t grasp. Vardaan Darvish had an inkling, I thought, but he crossed a Montauk, which has traditionally gone poorly for us.

But as the hours turned into days, and the final dusk drew closer, it seemed as though all the uncertainty was washed away.

I don’t know exactly when it all started to come undone. I think Maxwell first felt the ripples four days before the eclipse was due. It was strange. Like a pause in the hysterical whimpering and fruitless prayers of the sacrifices. And a ripple that was felt through the waters, and the stagnant blood that bound us. A disruption. We would later learn that this was the collapse of the ritual at Hither Green. But it was only the first.

Our congregation in Alaska disappeared the next day, and Russia, as well. One by one, it seemed our scattered whisperers of night were falling, and holding it together, keeping the lightless world anchored to our star, bringing it closer, was becoming an almost unbearable strain on Maxwell. I helped as I could, but without knowing what was happening, there was little I could do to stabilize it.

I began to drown the sacrifices. Too soon, perhaps. But it worked, to keep it going, and keep it together, until at last, we felt it. The eclipse.

We had been worshipping in the deepest dark, and yet, when it crossed the sun, I felt it rolling over us, like a cooling balm on a summer’s day, plunging us into a deep, black void, far more complete than I can ever convey with mere words.

It was divine. And as we unveiled our new and absent sun, the sacrifices who remained screamed and fell in holy agonies, and the world of endless night we had been promised began to pour in, shining out and all around us. It touched and caressed our souls with the soothing fears of night, and I heard Maxwell weeping with joy at what we had done.

And then, it stopped.

It just. Stopped.

All at once, that loving embrace was stripped from us, and it began to retreat, to recede back into the place it had come from. (getting emotional) We were so close! (softer) We were so close.

I heard Maxwell cry out, scrambling desperately into the dark sun, stopping just short of touching it. But it was too late. Whatever it was that you and your Archivist did, it clearly worked.

We left, half of us dead, and the other half destroyed by coming so close to the true essence, (sigh) and being denied.

In my most wretched hours, I wonder - perhaps it was us. Perhaps we simply lacked faith. We weren’t worthy. The world wasn’t worthy. But - no. We were ready. We had earned our dark rapture. And we were robbed.

I don’t know how long we waited after that. It was weeks before anyone spoke. And then… when they did… the arguments began. The recriminations, the desperate resolutions to try again, to find what went wrong. But, I could see in his eyes that Maxwell was so very tired. And all the words fell to nothing. Instead, we began the search for his successor, a new host for his… continuation.

He would regain his strength, and we would plan our next move. It was difficult, though; the approaching culmination meant Maxwell had not prepared another host, and the search for another vessel was long and involved. Finally, about eighteen months ago, we found one: a child, whose father had, by coincidence, been directly marked by the Dark.

It was a desperate plan, but we were desperate, a shadow of what we had been. Maxwell left me here to guard the Black Sun, and everyone else left to help in his rebirth.

But it didn’t work, did it? I can only assume we were too weak to hide from you, and you struck when Maxwell was vulnerable.

For the first six months, I let myself hope that my suspicions were unfounded, that the silence I felt was simply… him lying low, recovering, before returning to his abandoned disciple.

But no. Soon enough, I could no longer fool myself. He had been slain, and I was alone.

And here I have remained. Perhaps I have told myself that I am preparing, gathering my own strength, and making plans to continue the church in his name. But I think in my heart, I have been waiting for this moment. For the final axe to fall, and finish the last remnant of our holy crusade.

And here, at last, you are.

[SHE SIGHS, BREATHY.]
MANUELA (CONT’D)
There. Now you can kill me like the others.

[A SIGH.]
BASIRA
She telling the truth?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. I, I mean - Unless she can lie to me somehow. (inhale) You said it wasn’t the eclipse.

BASIRA
It’s not the time.

ARCHIVIST
Well. She believes it, at least. This doesn’t make any sense.

MANUELA
Well, where is she? Afraid to face what she’s done?

BASIRA
Just shut up.

MANUELA
(audible smirk) Coward. So, how did she do it? It’s been three years waiting, guarding this place without hope. At least do me the courtesy of telling me how she collapsed our moment of triumph.

[A SIGH AS SHE SPEAKS.]
ARCHIVIST
You really don’t know, do you?

MANUELA
Know what?

ARCHIVIST
Gertrude’s dead. She died right around the time of your ritual.

MANUELA
(smirk again) Ha. So, stopping us took everything she had.

BASIRA
You wish. She was murdered. Unrelated, as far as we can tell.

MANUELA
That’s - Well - Then why are you here? Maxwell is dead. The ritual failed. What’s left?

ARCHIVIST
(inhales) A good question. (exhale) Basira?

BASIRA
You said the Dark Sun was still here.

MANUELA
(light laugh) Fine. If you’re so keen to take everything, undo the work of centuries, it’s just through that door.

BASIRA
Jon?

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS. STATIC BEGINS.]
ARCHIVIST
How dangerous is it?

MANUELA
Only myself, Maxwell, and Natalie could even look upon it. It will annihilate you both in an instant.

BASIRA
Ask her how we can destroy it.

ARCHIVIST
I know how. I just need to see it.

BASIRA
See as in…?

ARCHIVIST
As in… actually see it.

MANUELA
Go ahead. Just try.

BASIRA
(overlapping) Look, it’s okay, Jon. No one else knows it’s here. And if we just leave it, no one will know.

ARCHIVIST
No, I - (inhale) I’m doing it. (another steadying inhale) Get out.

[BASIRA LEAVES. THE ARCHIVIST TAKES SEVERAL STEADYING BREATHS, AND THEN OPENS THE DOOR.]
[THE DARK SUN SOUNDS MELODIC, LIKE PIPES GROANING HARMONICS INTO THE WIND, LIKE THE MOURNFUL NOTES OF A CREAKING IRON GATE AS IT IS OPENED FOR THE FIRST TIME IN YEARS.]
[AN ENORMOUS RUSH OF STATIC BEGINS BUILDING; IT IS NOT THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC, IS MUCH TOO REEDY AND WISPY FOR THAT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
It’s - It’s beautiful.

[THE STATIC OVERTAKES THE AUDIO FIELD; MANUELA GASPS AND SCREAMS -]
MANUELA
No - NO!

[ALL AT ONCE THE STATIC RUSHES AWAY.]
BASIRA
Jon!

[BASIRA OPENS THE DOOR AND HURRIES BACK.]
ARCHIVIST
No, I, I’m okay.

[SOMETHING ELSE SHATTERS - THERE GOES FLASHLIGHT #2. THE ARCHIVIST YELPS. BASIRA SHOOTS.]
BASIRA
Get down!

[SHE SHOOTS TWICE MORE.]
ARCHIVIST
(breathing hard) Basira?

BASIRA
I’m alright, just - just one second.

ARCHIVIST
(background) Um…

BASIRA
Stay here.

ARCHIVIST
(after her) Look, I’m alright, I can help -

[BUT IT’S TOO LATE. BASIRA HAS WALKED OFF, PRESUMABLY IN PURSUIT OF MANUELA. THE ARCHIVIST GROANS IN FRUSTRATION. THERE IS A RELATIVE SILENCE, DURING WHICH HE CATCHES HIS BREATH.]
[THEN A SOFT STATIC BEGINS TO FUZZ IN THE BACKGROUND. IT IS ONE WE KNOW, ONE WE HAVE HEARD MANY TIMES BEFORE. A DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
ARCHIVIST
Did you catch her?

HELEN
Yes.

[THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: THIS IS NOT WHO HE HAD BEEN EXPECTING.]
HELEN
She needed a door.

ARCHIVIST
H-H-How did you -

HELEN
Oh, finding this place was easy without the darkness.

ARCHIVIST
Will… she be coming back?

HELEN
(thoughtful) No. Uh… This one, I think I’ll keep.

ARCHIVIST
Why are you here?

HELEN
I told you! I’ve decided to help. I thought you might like a way home?

ARCHIVIST
Another door?

HELEN
If you want it. (short pause) How was it?

ARCHIVIST
Hm?

HELEN
Looking upon the Dark.

ARCHIVIST
I thought I was going to die.

HELEN
You seem to think that a lot. I remember when you thought you were going to die at my threshold.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

HELEN
Go find your Basira. Then let’s get you both home.

[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES SOFTLY.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, SOMEWHERE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
MARTIN
Martin Blackwood, (sigh) Assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 0090310, statement of, uh, Gary Boylan, given October 3rd, 2009. Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
It was grey. I remember that so clearly. And hot. But no sun, no sun at all. The sky had that thick layer of clouds that - that catches the heat, and it choked me on it. Fields and fields of yellow grass that went on forever, with rusted pylons looming over all of it. It was that - that appalling sort of summer you only get in the middle of England, with all the joy of the season stripped away, leaving endless fields of dry soil and emptiness.

There was nothing to be done, nowhere to go, just watch and wait, and think about the - decay of it all. Walking among the detrites of the countryside is the surest way I know to find yourself close to the transience of humanity, seeing the - little hints, the preview of what’s to come for all of us, when the world no longer cares enough to keep us alive.

Have you ever been driving along a motorway, passing through the middle of some rural nothing place, when you spot, in the distance, on some tiny road you have no idea how to reach, a row of three or four terra-suburban houses, just sitting there, no town or village for miles, just a weird unattached little street? That’s where I live. It’s where I grew up, where I left forever, and… where I returned to after my mother died, and my business collapsed.

The two events were unrelated, but - both happened close enough together that I ended up moving back in with my dad. I told myself it was to take care of him, but - (heavy exhale) I’d been there five years before I knew it, and in a lot of ways, the old man seemed more capable of dealing with the world than me.

Not that he was supportive. God, no. He’d been a vet for most of his life, and spent a lot of that time working with livestock. I think all those years hanging around farmers must have rubbed off on him. He hated doctors, for instance, something I always pointed out was absurd, given his own job. I’d say he was a vet, and he’d say yeah, he was, and start talking about how many animals he’d put down in his career.

I never had any interest in continuing the conversation after that. He’d always been blunt, but after mum died - god. It was like his whole personality became callous.

I should have left him to himself, but there was something about that dismal little house, all alone except for Mrs Whitshore on one side, and the empty house that no one could sell on the other. Something kept me rooted there, sleeping in a bedroom that hadn’t changed since I was fifteen, and caring for a man who I’d rather just shut up. (sigh) We were both trapped there, I think. Bound together in a sort of wordless misery. I would look at him, and see a grim sort of destiny for myself: trapped here, until I became him; any future I might have had, sacrificed to his. (long sigh) I always used to go for long walks through the fields to try and escape for a bit. I usually managed to walk for an hour and a half before my paranoia kicked in, and I started to worry that he’d have a - fall or something, and have to head back.

An hour and a half was plenty, though, for all the places I could go. We were a long way from any real trails, and - (inhale) - the most scenic things to see were rusted tractors, piles of discarded tires, or the huge metal skeleton of an old disconnected power pylon.

It was a bleak and empty rural wasteland, and when the summer heat hit, without shade or shelter, it was almost as relentlessly oppressive as that old man. (shaky inhale) But I still took my walks.

It was this last August that it happened. I was about an hour into my walk, having had a row with him about his failing eyesight, a subject that made him even more defensive than usual; I was passing by an old cheap metal barn when I heard it. I’d been listening to music as I walked, when my iPod abruptly cut out. I stopped where I was, and took it out of my pocket, assuming I’d knocked it, or somehow turned it off. But the screen was on, apparently playing music, though I didn’t recognize the song.

I got a pretty sizeable music collection, but I feel like I do know it pretty well. This one had no artist, no album, just the track name: “Numbers.”

As I stared at it, I began to hear something from my headphones. It was a faint and tinny tone, like it was far off, or produced by a low-tech synthesizer or something. The tone began to shift, and I realized that it was playing a tune. It seemed to be a crude rendering of the opening lines of the - Skye boat song.

I only got through about a line and a half of the old folk melody before it abruptly cut off. There was a moment of silence, before it was replaced by a voice of a man - but his was so distorted and pitch-shifted that it could have been anyone. It barely even sounded human as it, as it spoke in a strange monotone.

Five. Nine. Three. Seven. Five. Six.

Now, I’m not an idiot. I’ve heard about number stations; I know all about the Lincolnshire Poacher and the Russian Man; I know they’ve all got perfectly normal explanations and real-world uses for - espionage and that. What that didn’t explain is how a number station found its way onto my iPod.

I checked, and its radio wasn’t even on. Seemed to be coming from my music player, though I had a look through my library, and couldn’t find anything that matched it.

The sky was still grey. The sweat dripped off me as I sat against a rotting fencepost, and the numbers kept coming.

Three. Zero. Five. Eight. Three. Nine. Two. Eight. Four. Six.

Eventually I staggered to my feet and began to make my way home. My footsteps were heavy, and my hands shook slightly as I tried to steady myself. Do you know that one of the symptoms of a heart attack is literally a sense of impending doom?

Well, I wasn’t having a heart attack, but - I think I know what they mean. What settled over me wasn’t dread; there wasn’t enough uncertainty for that; it was doom. I was certain that some sort of disaster was on the horizon.

I’d walked less than a hundred yards when the numbers stopped coming, and “London Calling” started playing again.

That summer seemed to drag on forever. The boredom and irritation of trying to care for my dad was only heightened by the weather,and we were both feeling it. Just didn’t have anything to do.

I don’t really want to go into my living situation here, but - it’s enough to say I wasn’t working a regular job, and while I could, theoretically, contact my old mates, they’d all gotten on with their lives without me. The world had moved on. I was left behind.

I did do a bit of research into number stations, but I didn’t find anything new. I did find a couple of clips online, though, which were enough to convince me that what I’d been hearing had been a number station, or at least a - passable imitation, although the voices on the proper recording sounded neutral, almost mechanical - very different to the grating distorted mess I had heard.

I couldn’t get it out of my mind, though. What did it mean? What did any of it mean?

Took about a week of searching to find it again. To be honest, at the time I didn’t even realize I was looking for it. I just found myself going further and further afield, retracing old routes for the sake of it. Always with my music cranked up so loud, I couldn’t hear the insects buzzing everywhere.

I couldn’t have told you why. Not really. At least not until I heard it again: that same tinny rendition of the “Skye boat song.” And then:

Four. Seven. Four. Nine.

I stood there frozen for a moment, that strange feeling of doom returning in an instant. I checked my iPod, and, sure enough, the radio was off, and it said it was playing a track called “Numbers.”

It was fainter than it had been before, though, harder to pick out the exact numbers in the distortion and the quiet, so I began to walk again, this time paying close attention to the volume and clarity of the sound.

One. Six.

Fainter to the north.

Two. Eight.

Unchanged. Going south:

Three. Zero.

Southeast was stronger:

One. Six.

But began to weaken again after a mile or so.

Five. Zero.

Much stronger around the eastern hill.

Four. Nine.

There! The pylon. That was it. Except, obviously, that wasn’t it. It wasn’t a broadcast tower; there was nothing in or around it that could have possibly been sending out any signal. It was just a - collection of old and twisted metal bars, rising up into the half-collapsed power tower. It must have been decades since it had been anything other than a decaying steel obelisk.

Even if that hadn’t been this case, this wasn’t a broadcast; this was - this was - inside my iPod. It would have to be something else, something cutting-edge and new - but for miles around me was nothing but droning insects and dismal English summer!

Nonetheless, when I stood in the center of the hollow beneath that pylon’s rusted corpse, the numbers came through, crystal clear.

Five. Six. Four. Eight. Four. Six. Four. Seven. Four. Eight. Two. Seven.

With each new number, my blood pounded, and my heart raced - th,though I didn’t have the faintest idea what they might’ve meant. I’d actually brought a notebook and pen, I now realize, just to write down the numbers, and so I did.

Four hours I spent, patiently jotting down the numbers. The Skye boat song repeated every hour and half, but I went through the sequence a few times just to assure myself it didn’t change, and I hadn’t missed any.

When I finally took out my headphones, the sudden rush of summer evening sounds hit me like a wave, leaving me reeling and dizzy. It took me a moment to realize how late it was, and how sunburned I had gotten in the process.

Everything ached, and my heart pounded as I limped home. I’d been out easily twice as long as any time before. But, my dad didn’t say a word about it, just sat in front of the TV, laughing at some crappy panel show, smoking that god-awful pipe that left the wallpaper yellow and peeling.

I remember thinking he wasn’t content to just destroy himself. He seemed to have to take out everything with him.

I didn’t return to the pylon for a long time, except to confirm that the numbers weren’t changing between days. I had them, though, and the numbers were all that mattered. I didn’t know why; I’m sure there wasn’t a reason, not really, but - I knew it was in there.

Realistically, it would be impossible to decode it without whatever key the cipher might have been using, and honestly, for the longest time, it seemed to be. I did as much reading as I could on cryptography and - codebreaking, and all of it seemed to point me toward one simple conclusion: breaking this code by myself was - simply impossible.

But I still tried. I spent weeks in my room, desperately applying every method I had available. Nothing worked. But I didn’t stop. The alternative was looking after my dad, whose recent breathing issues had left him more ratty than ever.

So, I worked myself into exhaustion instead, staring at those meaningless strings of numbers until I almost collapsed, and my eyes couldn’t focus on anything. And that was when I realized: it wasn’t the numbers. It wasn’t the code. It was what was behind the numbers, shifting and waiting and, and coming towards me like a tidal wave, and I knew what the message was, the urgent and terrible message.

About the destruction that was coming on the heels of mankind, about the cold and cruel warmongers who play games of code and conspiracy, hidden behind the endless streams of numbers.

And within those numbers are all of our dooms. If you know how to read them. And I read them. I read them all, and saw the doom of everyone who lives and breathes and hopes for life and happiness.

I fled the house. I ran to the pylon, that ruined place that knew all of the numbers, and I fell to my knees and wept. I begged it to spare us, to spare me, as I stared at the flesh I knew would redden and bubble and blister away to the bone beneath.

I didn’t need headphones to hear the numbers now. They were pouring from the air around me and threaded through my mind, and no matter how I begged, they would not stop.

When I returned, the house was in ruins, the windows shattered and broken, glass strewn across the floor. There was nothing left of my dad, save a charred shadow along the wall, scorched through the plaster, and into the now-exposed brick. All that was left of Mrs Whitshore was powdered bone.

There are terrible things coming, things that, if we knew of them, would leave us weak and trembling, with shuddering terror at the knowledge that they are coming for all of us. We all made them, and their course is already plotted.

You can see them in the numbers. If you only learn how to read them.

MARTIN
Statement ends.

[HE CLEAR HIS THROAT, TAKES A DEEP BREATH, LETS IT OUT QUICKLY.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Right. Another - statement. Another side to Peter’s Extinction. I think. I - Yeah, I, I couldn’t follow some of his reasoning, but I think it was about nuclear weapons? In keeping with the theme, I suppose.

(speaks as if intending his next words to be overheard) I just wish Peter would stop trying to convince me his new power is real, and more time telling me what he plans to do about it.

(sigh) And where I fit in. I mean, fine, I guess I’ve li -

[KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR. MARTIN TAKES IN A SMALL, SOFT, STARTLED GASP, WAITS IN SILENCE.]
[THE KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK COMES AGAIN. MARTIN FLIPS OVER THE STATEMENT, THEN:]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Come in.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
DAISY
Mind if I join you?

[MARTIN STARTS WRITING SOMETHING; THE DOOR CLOSES IN THE BACKGROUND.]
DAISY
They’re back. I thought you might wanna know.

[MARTIN KEEPS WRITING.]
DAISY
(inhale) Seems like it went smooth - too smooth for Basira, sounds like. (small laugh) Keeps looking at Jon like she can’t believe he made it back.

[MARTIN KEEPS WRITING.]
DAISY
I, uh, I mentioned our conversation to him; he asked me to [check on] -

MARTIN
Just leave.

DAISY
Sorry?

[MARTIN INHALES AS IF HE’S PREPARING HIMSELF FOR SOMETHING.]
MARTIN
Get out.

DAISY
(????) Oh. Right. Sorry; I didn’t -

MARTIN
It’s not difficult; just get out!

[HE KEEPS WRITING.]
DAISY
Fine! Fine. Just thought -

[SHE OPENS THE DOOR; MARTIN GOES OFF.]
MARTIN
No! No you didn’t! We’re not - We’re not friends, Daisy! None of us are; we’re all just trapped together, here, and, and kidding ourselves that we don’t hate it. Christ, there are more important things than, than feelings right, now, alright, so just - leave me alone! For good.

[DURING THIS, DAISY EXHALES. LOUDLY.]
DAISY
Right. You got it.

[SHE LEAVES, DOOR CLOSING BEHIND HER. THE SECOND SHE’S GONE, PETER LUKAS’S TRADEMARK SQUEAKY STATIC COMES IN. THERE’S AN ADDED STRONGER BASS TO IT. MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Well?

PETER
I’m impressed. And grateful.

MARTIN
(significantly less distressed than he’d sounded just a few moments earlier) I didn’t do it for you.

PETER
Even better.

MARTIN
It’s easier, this way. I’m sure you would have had no problems sending her away.

PETER
I hadn’t really thought about it. And now, thanks to you, I don’t need to.

MARTIN
(nearly cutting him off) Yeah, well. It seems to be your go-to move for dealing with anyone.

PETER
I’m just not big on confrontation. You understand, I’m sure.

MARTIN
We. Are not. The same.

PETER
Of course.

MARTIN
So what now?

PETER
Did you read it?

[SHORT PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Yeah.

PETER
And?

[MARTIN TAKES A REALLY DEEP INHALE AND SUBSEQUENT EXHALE: GIVE ME STRENGTH.]
MARTIN
I believe you.

PETER
You don’t still think I’m trying to trick you into a grand ritual?

MARTIN
I mean I’m not about to start chanting stuff for you, but - the details you’ve given me all seem to check out. (small sigh) So far.

PETER
Good!

MARTIN
So what’s our next step?

PETER
For you, keep researching. I’m sure we haven’t found all the statements in here that deal with the Extinction yet. One of the downsides of not serving the Ceaseless Watcher is that we have to actually look things up. Not to mention that Gertrude was distressingly good at obfuscation. The more you know about our enemy, the better.

MARTIN
And you?

PETER
I have my own explorations I need to attend to. And a, um, meeting. To arrange. For you.

MARTIN
For me?

PETER
I’m absolutely delighted with your progress, and I believe you deserve some straight answers.

MARTIN
…But not from you.

PETER
Oh, no. That sort of conversation makes me very uncomfortable; no, I’m owed a favor by a friend of mine. I’ve asked him to stop by, once he’s back in the country.

MARTIN
You’re not just going to tell me, maybe?

PETER
(can hear the smile) When have I ever?

[MARTIN SIGHS THE LONGEST SIGH HE EVER DID SIGH.]
PETER
Oh, come now. What would life be without the occasional twist? Oh, speaking of, I’ve had report of a workplace dispute in the library, and I would value your input.

I’m trying to get out of the habit of, what did you call it - sending them away?

[MARTIN SIGHS AGAIN, WEARY AND LONGSUFFERING.]
MARTIN
Fine.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, 2009]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
You… don’t mind, do you?

[THE MAN WHO SPEAKS NEXT’S VOICE IS LOW, GRAVELLY. EVERY WORD IS LACED WITH DISDAIN FOR GERTRUDE ROBINSON, AND HE SEEMS LIKE HE’S ONLY JUST KEEPING HIMSELF FROM SPITTING ON HER. THIS IS ARTHUR NOLAN.]
[HE SIGHS.]
ARTHUR
‘Course I do.

[GERTRUDE SCOFFS.]
GERTRUDE
That’s a shame.

ARTHUR
If I really wanted to kill you, nothing could stop me.

GERTRUDE
If that were a possibility, Arthur, I should hardly have agreed to meet you.

[IT’S ARTHUR’S TURN TO SCOFF.]
ARTHUR
Yeah you would. You’d’ve set something up. Try to get me first.

GERTRUDE
If I wanted you dead, Arthur, there are much simpler ways to do it.

ARTHUR
Yeah. Think you know how?

GERTRUDE
I do, yes. And I’m very willing to, if necessary.

ARTHUR
(dry) Oh, I’m sure. I’m shaking in my boots.

[GERTRUDE SIGHS: TIME TO SPELL IT OUT, THEN.]
GERTRUDE
Look, Arthur, I need you to understand that this isn’t simple posturing. I don’t see a way we can meaningfully progress this conversation while you’re under the impression that your threats mean anything to me.

ARTHUR
Big talk. But Agnes is dead. And I don’t know if you heard, but your little woodland circle’s been broken. So I don’t really see, anything getting in my way, if I wanted to burn the flesh, off your snarky bones.

GERTRUDE
Ah. (small laugh) I assume you haven’t checked on, uh, Eugene, then?

[PAUSE.]
ARTHUR
What?

GERTRUDE
Eugene. Well, whatever his name was, Vanderbilt, or some such. You sent him to intimidate me a couple of years ago. You must remember; of course you know him. Used to live in Beckingham, but moved out to that flat in, uh, Ilford last year.

ARTHUR
Yeah.

GERTRUDE
Well, he hasn’t been at your little meetings the last two weeks, has he? I suppose no one’s looked into it yet; not surprising, he seemed a thoroughly unpleasant little man.

ARTHUR
Are you - Wh - Di -

GERTRUDE
Tell you what; why don’t you make a few calls,

[SOMETHING, LIKELY A PHONE, IS PLACED ON THE DESK.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
- and then we can continue our little discussion. Alright?

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
Well?

[A LOW SIGH, THAT SAME SOUND OF THE PHONE BEING PLACED ON THE DESK.]
ARTHUR
How’d you do it?

[GERTRUDE LAUGHS.]
GERTRUDE
You don’t need to know that. What you do need to know is I can do it again, if I need to. To you, or any of your lackeys, if I need to.

ARTHUR
(hm) Not mine anymore.

GERTRUDE
No, no; I forgot - Your authority isn’t what it used to be, these days.

ARTHUR
Yeah.

GERTRUDE
Well, if a warning from you isn’t going to convince them, let me know. I’d be happy to provide a further example.

ARTHUR
(through gritted teeth) You’ve made your point.

GERTRUDE
Good.

ARTHUR
Eugene. It - hurt him.

GERTRUDE
(laugh) Oh, yes. I’m sure your master was delighted with how - awful his death was.

ARTHUR
Don’t push it.

GERTRUDE
You know, thinking about it, the amount of pain and loss and legitimate devastation I’ve caused among your little cult over the last, what, forty years? I think the Desolation is probably very fond of me.

ARTHUR
That’s blasphemy, it is.

GERTRUDE
Is it? Or maybe you just picked a bad god.

ARTHUR
Shut it. I don’t have to listen to this.

GERTRUDE
Mm, uh, then… feel free to try and leave.

[FOR A MOMENT, WE HEAR NOTHING BUT ARTHUR’S INCENSED BREATHS.]
[GERTRUDE AUDIBLY SMIRKS.]
GERTRUDE
Hm. Now, here’s the problem for you, Arthur. The way I see it, you came here believing that whatever defenses or assurances I might have had died with Agnes. Or broken, along with the circle. And whether or not you actually killed me, you were really hoping to use me to restore your standing with the Lightless Flame.

Murder, kidnap, torture, oh, something to impress the church group. Unluckily for you, I’ve had almost four decades to prepare for this, and now… well… you just don’t know if killing Eugene was the end of it. (unmitigated glee) What, maybe I have something special prepared for you as well.

ARTHUR
(get a load of yourself) You’re so goddamn smart.

GERTRUDE
(suddenly cutting) And you’re all lazy fools. So used to it being easy, to picking off the vulnerable and the unprepared, you can barely conceive of anyone actively working against you.

You honestly thought when she died I’d just be struck dumb with terror, just waiting around for one of you to finally get around to revenge, paralyzed with fear, because that’s all you’ve ever know.

ARTHUR
You’ve made your point.

GERTRUDE
(hm) I’m pleased to hear it.

[THE BRIEFEST PAUSE, AND THEN:]
ARTHUR
Do you?

GERTRUDE
Do I… what?

ARTHUR
Have something for me. So I end up like Eugene.

GERTRUDE
Why don’t you try to leave and find out?

[PAUSE AS ARTHUR PRESUMABLY TRIES TO DO THIS VERY THING.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
Good. Now, we can have a proper conversation.

ARTHUR
You mean - you ask me questions, and I - I spill my guts?

GERTRUDE
No need to be petulant, Arthur. If it would make you feel better, you could ask me a question first.

ARTHUR
Alright. Agnes. How’d you do it? Never did understand it, not really.

GERTRUDE
Ah. That’s a fair enough question. It was the Web. I didn’t know it at the time, of course, and I would call it an accident, but it never is, with them. It’s only after the fact that you can see all the subtle manipulations.

I was very new to it all, of course. I mean, I was, what, can’t have been older than twenty-five. You were the first proper ritual attempt I’d encountered. (she laughs) I really thought you were unique, special, (puffed exhale, exaggerated) an infernal cult raising their demon messiah to bring about hell on earth. (heh) You can imagine all the heroic fantasies that that played into.

So, I began researching what I thought was a counter-ritual of sorts. Like I said, I was young, naive. I somehow found just the right books, made just the right connections, and even got what I thought was a piece of blind good luck when I found a tin box in the ashes of Hilltop Road, containing some perfectly preserved cuttings of her hair.

Of course, what I thought was a banishment ritual turned out not to be. The circle I constructed was more of a - (exhale) - an invitation.

It let the Mother of Puppets bind me to Agnes, interweave our existences at some… metaphysical level, as it had with Fielding and the house.

It was the most painful experience of my life. I mean, I’m sure it’s nothing to you, but I’ve never had my lungs try to burn me alive from the inside out before.

I survived, though. And you know the rest. I’m not sure exactly how it manifested on your end. You certainly seemed to get the message.

I kept the circle, over the years, laced it through with signs and symbology of the Desolation to ward off the worst of the side effects, and keep its attentions elsewhere.

[ARTHUR LAUGHS. IT SOUNDS MORE LIKE A WHEEZE.]
ARTHUR
Don’t envy whoever broke it.

GERTRUDE
Yes. It went very badly for them, indeed.

ARTHUR
So where was it, in the end? I spent years looking for it.

GERTRUDE
(heh) Nowhere special. The middle of a forest in the Scottish highlands. Furthest place I could find from anything and anyone.

[ARTHUR LAUGHS.]
ARTHUR
Yeah. Fair play. Not like we were ever gonna find that.

GERTRUDE
So. Your turn.

[ARTHUR SHUFFLES AROUND, SIGHS.]
ARTHUR
Go on.

GERTRUDE
What was Agnes like?

ARTHUR
What?

GERTRUDE
Well, for all the Web bound us together, I never actually met her. What was she like?

ARTHUR
I… I don’t know. Not really. You got as many answers to that as… folks who met her. Never really knew what she felt ‘bout any of it, not really. Not in her own words. Guess that’s the thing about being the… chosen one, or - I mean, Agnes was always quiet, but even if you spend all day, every day throwing out commandments and laying down parables… at the end of it, you’re always just the point of someone else’s story, everyone clamoring to say what you were, what you meant, and your thoughts on it all don’t mean nothing.

GERTRUDE
And were you this introspective when she was alive?

ARTHUR
Well that’s the thing about a fall from grace, innit? Makes you look at things from a… new angle. (pause) I miss her. (scoff) I’ll tell you that for nothing. Wish I - I don’t know. I’d actually known her, when she was alive. (long inhale) Maybe that coffeeshop twit did have a point after all. Couldn’t tell you what I saw, at least.

GERTRUDE
Which was?

ARTHUR
(steadying inhale) I saw the sun. So much - power and fire and rage inside of her, enough to burn the world and leave it nothing but desert. But to look at her, oh - It was too much for most. But it seemed so still, so stable. But it wasn’t calm. It was just - distant.

She never told us how she felt about being bound to you. Never even called you by name. Just called you her anchor. The thing weighing her down, tying her to this world and stopping her destiny.

GERTRUDE
Hm. I’m surprised you didn’t come for me immediately.

ARTHUR
(wheeze) Come for you? We ended up protecting you, more often than not. Diego was convinced if you died a violent death it would be catastrophic for Agnes. He even talked me around, and I spent decades convincing the others to wait it out. You couldn’t outrun age forever. And we had time. But it didn’t need to be forever, did it? Just long enough for a messiah to doubt. The sort of doubts that spread to her disciples.

You’ve never really had to bother with it, do you? You’ve got him upstairs to point the way as often as not, and the rest of the time you’re just figuring out people. Or things that used to be people.

You never try to talk with that Eye of yours. You’ve never had to second-guess a god. Because that’s what it comes down to, isn’t it? We feel it’s joy and it’s anger. It warps us and changes us and feeds on us. Though not in the ways we expect.

The one thing it never does is just… tell us what to do. It seeds us with this… aching, impossible desire to change the world, to bring it to us. Then it leaves us to guess and bicker and fight over how the hell you can actually do it. If it’s possible.

Sometimes I think they understand us as - little as we understand them. We don’t think like they do.

GERTRUDE
(noise of discontent) I’m not actually convinced they think at all.

ARTHUR
You might be right. But Agnes did. That’s the thing about an - incarnation, isn’t it? She was a child and - person as much as she was a god. And we messed that right up.e messed that right up.e messed that right up.

I still remember when Diego brought us a book on childcare. (dry laugh) Roger’s body was still in her room, blackened and smoking from when he tried to feed her. I thought he’d brought me another one of his damn Leitners, but no, it was just a regular old book on looking after children.

I was an idiot. Saw it as… attacking my leadership. Burnt the thing. Diego wasn’t happy. (louder) Well, he’s in charge now. (lower) All of us that are left at least. (louder again) He can look for answers in whatever books he likes, no skin off my nose.

GERTRUDE
I didn’t actually ask.

ARTHUR
(sigh) Figure if you’re gonna pull this stuff out of me, might as well get some of it off my chest anyway. (wheezy laugh) Not like I can vent to the others about what a prat Diego is. Got a lot of funny ideas. Still calls the Lightless Flame Asag, like he was when he was first researching it. I just really wanna tell him to get over it; I mean Asag was traditionally a force of destruction, sure, but as a church we very much settled on burning in terms of the - face we worship, and some fish-boiling Sumerian demon doesn’t really match up, does it? Plus there’s a lot of disease imagery with Asag that I’ll reckon is way too close to Filth for my taste, but no, he read it in some ancient tome, so that’s that -

GERTRUDE
(overlapping) Well, I can’t say I -

ARTHUR
(continuing over her) - reckons he always knows best, ‘cause he’s read a few books, well Big. Deal.

Way I see it, if a writer can’t even save themselves, they probably don’t have a lot worth knowing. Find me one so-called “expert” on all of this who didn’t end up regretting it.

That’s the trouble with overthinking any of this: You ignore your gut. And to my mind, that’s the only part any of them beyond actually care about. They don’t give a toss about your rules, or systems. They only care about what feels right, what freezes your belly with terror.

GERTRUDE
(heh) I rather like to think I’ve managed.

[ARTHUR WHEEZE-LAUGHS AGAIN.]
ARTHUR
Yeah. But you don’t actually care about them, do you? Not really. You forget, we’ve been watching you a long time, and I know you, Gertrude. You don’t actually care about the fears. You’re too practical. All your energy is focused down here, on monsters, and murderers, and all the things doing the dirty work for them beyond.

You know plenty, sure, but you don’t have that - obsession, that stupid urge to try and understand and classify things that use logic and reality like weapons.

GERTRUDE
Hm. Per-Perhaps.

ARTHUR
(small laugh) Always respected you for that. Takes a strong stomach to not give a shit.

GERTRUDE
(heh) You’ll forgive me if I’m not overjoyed at the compliment.

ARTHUR
Suit yourself.

GERTRUDE
So. Now Diego has taken over; where does that leave you?

ARTHUR
(heh) Slumlording over a nest.

GERTRUDE
Oh. A nest of what?

ARTHUR
Found a mass of the Crawling Rot growing a while back. Managed to get ahold of the property before it became too big. Gotta wait ‘til it blossoms before we can properly burn it.

So ‘til then… just playing landlord.

It’s alright, I suppose. You’d be surprised the misery and pain you can cause when you’ve control over someone’s home. If you’re careful, if you’re smart, you can burn their life to ashes as thoroughly as any fire - and worst comes to worst, you can still do it the old-fashioned way.

Had an elderly tenant last year, oh, she was in a terrible state. I had her trapped, too poor and immobile to do anything but - sit there. Then I broke her boiler, so the cold started to get her.

Not exactly my usual, but… agony is agony. But then her son and his wife moved in with her to help her out. Not much I could do against that. So I just waited until all three were home, and set the place ablaze.

They went up nicely, screaming all the way as the flames started to reach them. Doors were locked, and handles were hot, so they didn’t have a chance of escape -

GERTRUDE
Yes, that’s - quite enough, I think.

ARTHUR
Oh, I’m sorry. There I was, thinking you liked the gory details. My mistake.

GERTRUDE
I think we’re just about done here.

ARTHUR
All your burning questions answered?

GERTRUDE
I’m certainly convinced you don’t know anything else useful.

ARTHUR
So - I’m free to go? You’re not gonna… you know.

GERTRUDE
(laugh, a bit too gleeful) I suppose you’ll have to wait and see.

ARTHUR
…Suppose I will.

GERTRUDE
You tell the others. Make sure they know what happened to Eugene.

ARTHUR
Sure. Can’t make any promises, though. ‘Specially for Jude. She really hates you.

GERTRUDE
Tell her she’s welcome to try. Oh, and I’m extending my protection to young Mr. Barnabas. They hurt him any more, then what happened to Eugene will seem like a mercy.

ARTHUR
(low, dangerous) You’re really pushing it, you know that?

GERTRUDE
(audible self-satisfied smirk) Hm. Feel free to push back. (harder) But until then, get out of my Archives.

[ARTHUR INHALES FOR A LONG TIME.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE, PRESENT DAY]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
(sigh) The more I listen, the more it seems to me we’re all just - groping about, trying desperately to find out what we’re actually meant to be doing.

These things that - loom so large over our lives trap us and push us and - sometimes kill us. But they never actually tell us what we’re supposed to be doing. So we scheme and we plot, lash out at each other without ever really knowing why.

I think Gertrude knew this, knew to focus her attention on those parts that could be understood, and - well. And killed.

But I’m really starting to worry that there aren’t any answers. Not like I want there to be. There aren’t any answers in Ny-Ålesund; there aren’t any answers in the past - I’ve been inside the Buried, and there were no answers there.

Elias always seemed to know what was going on, to have a plan, but… I sometimes wonder how orchestrated some of it really was. (sigh) (faster) We’ve been back in London for just over a week now. I’m - more or less recovered physically; it’s just this nagging sense of unease that won’t leave me.

I was… so sure I’d find something up there. But instead it was just another broken person trying to come to terms with the wreckage of their life.

And here? I reached out, I took another tape, hoping for a bit of guidance, but - (short sigh) To be honest, this hasn’t helped.

I did some more digging into Eugene Vanderstock. I thought he was still alive, and - (inhale) - working at the steel plant, but it looks like he’s just listed on one of the old directory pages on their website.

I really miss having people who know their way around a computer better than I do.

[LONG PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
A bit more digging found a… rather bizarre case. Apparently he disappeared in late 2009, leaving behind only one thing: a life-sized statue of himself, crafted from candlewax and sawdust. Missing its head.

I wish I didn’t know how painful it must be to be alive while your entire being is infused with… agonizing grit. But, as I was investigating, it… came to me.

Eugene is still alive, frozen in place by the razor-sharp particles that are mixed up into what he chose instead of flesh.

I don’t know where Gertrude stored his head. But I do know it desperately wants to scream. (inhale) Perhaps I c -

[KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
[THE DOOR OPENS.]
GEORGIE
Knock-knock!

ARCHIVIST
Oh - G-Georgie! Wh-What a - You… -

GEORGIE
(overlapping) Oh! Uh, sorry; I thought um - Is Melanie about?

ARCHIVIST
…Melanie? Uh - Yeah, I saw her a couple of hours ago - Uh, in the other office, I can, I can show you?

GEORGIE
Oh, I’m - sure I can find it. Don’t worry yourself.

ARCHIVIST
A-All right. (incomprehensible noise as he gets his bearings) W,Why are you, uh, well - here? I-If it’s not too personal a question.

[SHORT PAUSE.]
GEORGIE
It is a bit. It’s not really my place to discuss it.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, oh, therapy! You’re taking her to therapy.

GEORGIE
She - told you then?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, yes, yeah.

GEORGIE
Well, you don’t need to sound quite so psyched about it. (rustle of clothing) She gets - nervous traveling there alone.

ARCHIVIST
(inhale) Yes, o-o-of course. I-I forget you two know each other.

[LONG SILENCE, DURING WHICH THE ARCHIVIST LETS A QUIET UM CROSS HIS LIPS.]
GEORGIE
So- (breaks off, pause) How are you doing?

ARCHIVIST
I’m… I’m alright. I’m trying to, uh, rest up a bit. Take it easy.

[HE EXHALES.]
GEORGIE
Really? ‘Cause - I’m pretty sure I heard talking about a screaming headless corpse just now.

ARCHIVIST
Oh - Oh, were you… listening? -

GEORGIE
Oh, um. Didn’t mean to, you know. These doors are not that thick.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I’m deep in it. Had some - close calls.

GEORGIE
(fast) I’m sorry to hear that. You should probably get some therapy too.

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES QUICKLY, AS IF SURPRISED.]
ARCHIVIST
Would you go with me as well?

GEORGIE
…No.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. I thought as much.

GEORGIE
It’s the other office, you say.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

GEORGIE
Yeah. Thanks. Take care of yourself.

ARCHIVIST
(long sigh) You too.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST
End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Marcus McKenzie, regarding a series of unexplored entryways. Original statement given September 1st, 2003. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So my dad tells me he’s been bothering you with his nonsense? (sigh) I just wanted to come over and set things straight. Apologize for any of your time that he might have wasted.

He’s… just a lonely old man looking for attention and trying to manipulate me into moving back in with him, even though I’ve told him so many times that that’s just not going to happen. (sigh) The doors thing isn’t even his, you know? That’s what he talked to you about, right? Some magically appearing door.

Yeah, well, he’s just trying to send me a message. Which has been received, loud and clear.

I suppose I do probably owe you some sort of explanation. (big sigh) Right.

I’d been living with my parents… a while. I kept moving out, but it never seemed to stick. First was uni - fine, moving in after a degree is normal. Then there was my divorce, back in ‘93, that landed me back in my old room for a while, then my company went bust about four years ago and wiped out all my savings.

All told, I must have spent most of my twenties, and not a small amount of my thirties, living in that house with my mum and dad.

It was alright, but each time the vibe was worse. My mum was always happy to have me, but she wanted me to move on with my life. But dad was weirdly protective of me, kept trying to keep me around, like he was terrified that the world outside was going to hurt me.

I was - quite depressed, back then, and his attitude put me in a really… weird headspace. I think it comes back to the doors, you know? I think he always secretly thought that I had some deep-seated mental illness, even though they did so many tests, and the doors were the only thing that there ever was - aside from the depression, obviously.

But they were just specific, weird little hallucinations that have long since stopped. Haven’t had one in… well, it’s not important.

But my dad always thought it was a sign of something deeper, something that was - something that was going to destroy me, someday. So whenever I was living at home, he smothered me, tried desperately to keep me around.

Don’t you see? That’s what this whole thing has been about; he’s been so lonely since mum died, and he’s been trying to get me to move back in with him. He’s pretending that he is starting to see the doors. He thinks that if he starts to share in my “madness,” as he always calls it, then I’ll be worried about it; I’ll stick around.

But I’m not mad, and he’s not seeing any doors. I’m sorry he’s so lonely, truly, I am - I try to see him as much as I can, but - I have my own life, and I can’t be there all the time. And I don’t like being manipulated. I don’t like being lied to.

The first door I remember seeing that shouldn’t have been there, must have been when I was five or six. I had a skipping rope, bright green, old and ratty. I made my mum buy it for me at a car boot sale, and I loved it. I could spend hours on the playground, just stood there jumping happily. We weren’t really supposed to bring our own toys to school, but no one stopped me.

It was thicker, heavier, than the ones all the other kids had, a proper rope that needed a good bit of strength to really swing. I was fiercely proud of it.

So one night - it was during the Christmas holidays, so I must have been six - I wake up. There’s a noise in my room, like something being dragged along the floor. Well, I look over, and in the weak orange glow of my nightlight, I can see the heavy wooden handle of my skipping rope moving slowly across the floorboards and out my bedroom door.

I don’t remember panicking. I’m not even sure I was scared, not at that point. But I didn’t like anyone except my friends touching my toys, so I got up and hurried to follow.

I chased it sleepily out of my bedroom and down the hall, past the stairs and towards… a doorway I didn’t recognize. I was sure that when I’d gone to bed, it’d been a patch of wall, with a painting of an old sailboat on it. But now it was an open doorway.

A small amount of light leaked from around the edges of the door through to my parents room behind me. But it didn’t reach very far at all, and beyond the threshold, it was completely dark.

That was when I started to feel scared.

I could see the wooden handle of my skipping rope lying in the corridor, its heavy green cord stretching out and into the door, until it disappeared in the darkness.

I realized I was shaking. I didn’t want to go through that door. So I picked up the handle, and started to gently pull on it, try to drag it back out again. Instead of moving, the line went taut. Something was holding the other end, and it was trying to pull me.

For one, awful moment, I found myself frozen in a tug-of-war with whatever was inside that door, clinging desperately to that rope as it stretched away and vanished into blackness. But I was six, and felt myself starting to lose my footing and fall towards it, so I did the only thing I could: I let go, and I watched my most treasured possession disappear forever as the door closed behind it, and I ran back to bed.

I told my parents, of course, but they didn’t believe me. They just thought I’d lost it, and was making up wild stories to cover it up. The wall was the wall again, and the picture of the old sailing boat was back where it should have been.

The next time, I was eleven, and that time, the door wasn’t really there. Well, it was, but it was - covered in concrete.

It - It was in this old alleyway, about five minutes walk from my house, and one of the buildings was this abandoned warehouse. I - At least I think it was a warehouse. The wooden signs were rotted away, and the windows had all been broken - and the main layer had been covered in a grey layer of perfectly smooth concrete.

I passed it on the way home from school almost every day, and something about that blank, grey space where a door should have been always gave me a shiver of unease.

Then one day I was walking past, and the door that stole my skipping rope was there. The thing was, though, I couldn’t see it, because it was still covered in that concrete, but I knew it was there. Before, there’d been nothing behind it, but now, I was certain; now in the center of the concrete were five clear marks, as though someone had pressed their fingers into the mixture when it had still been wet.

I stood there, staring at it like I had all those years ago. It was playing with me again, but this time, it wasn’t looking to play with a skipping rope. This time, it was a dare. It was daring me to put my own hand on that rough concrete, to fit my fingers into the hollow spaces it had made for me, and open it.

It was a windy afternoon, but for that moment the narrow street where I stood was completely still. I could feel the muscles in my arm tensing, preparing to stretch towards it, to accept the dare from a door that had hidden itself so sneakily under all that concrete.

Then my friend Luke yelled at me from the end of the street. The fear was gone in a second, and I ran to catch up with him. I did, however, make the mistake of telling my parents about it, and reminding them of the other time it had happened when I was six.

This time, they didn’t dismiss it so quickly. First, they checked the alleyway, and took some pictures of the solid, unmarked concrete of the covered entry. Then, they began to make appointments, and sent me to specialists. I was tested and poked and quizzed and prodded all through my teenage years.

I never believed I was delusional, not like that, no matter what my father said, and neither, it seemed, did the doctors - at least, not in any way they could prove. Every test, every examination seemed to reinforce the fact that there was nothing medically unusual about me or my mind.

The only evidence to the contrary was the fact that I - kept seeing the door.

When I was thirteen, it was underneath a railway bridge. It was huge and metal this time, with solid iron bolts sealing it shut and a thick chain stretched across it. The warning stickers had long since scrubbed off, and someone had scrawled in chalk “WARNING: Danger of Death.”

As I passed, something heavy began to bang on the side, sending the chain dancing. It pounded again and again, and I didn’t know if it was trying to force its way out, or politely knocking, hoping to be let in.

When I was fifteen, I pressed the doorbell for Sandra’s house, picking her up for our first date, and I realized that it sounded wrong, like the doorbell was echoing through a hundred empty corridors, bouncing back and forth and lingering in the air. I looked again at their front door, and realized that it didn’t lead to their house.

I heard footsteps approaching on the other side from the far distance, fast and steady, but getting closer. I turned and ran, just as I heard the door open behind me.

When I was sixteen, I was stumbling home drunk from a house party, and I found it lying open in the ground in front of me. It was wide, waiting, and I could see a long corridor stretching down and away, at a right angle to the world as I knew it, turning off into an angular labyrinth.

I was trying so hard to walk carefully, to seem like I wasn’t drunk, that I almost didn’t notice it until it was too late. I stared into it for a long time, my eyes hazy from cheap vodka, and I saw a shape walking calmly along the vertical floor.

When I was eighteen, I was driving a group of friends to a concert in Leeds when we pulled into a service station to get some lunch. They didn’t hear the scream coming from the small stone structure just next to where all the coaches parked. They didn’t see the drag marks that led across the tarmac and under the door.

I didn’t eat lunch that day.

The last time was the worst. It hadn’t happened for almost fifteen years, and when I saw it, I almost wept.

It was when I was living in Oxford, up Cowley Way. A few streets over, there was an empty plot of land, just scrubby plants and junk. If there’d ever been a house there, it was long gone. A few of the older residents said it burned down in the seventies, but they were always… real weird about it. I passed it whenever I was heading down to get a drink at the City Arms.

The last week before I had to move back in with my parents, I was at my lowest point. I was bankrupt in all but name, the work of almost half a decade flushed down the toilet, and all that remained of my worldly possessions were packed up for yet another return to childhood.

And as I passed that empty space of grass, there it was: a pale yellow door, stood all alone, like the entrance to a house that I just couldn’t see. It had no frame around it, but I was sure that if I grasped its handle and twisted, it would still swing open, silent and inviting.

This wasn’t like before; there was no playfulness here, none of that malicious joy that I had always felt coming off it. Now there was just a cold hunger, a deep anger, as though I had no right to just stand there looking at it. The street was silent, but I could feel it screaming at me to open it.

I just about managed to not to. I was just about able to walk away.

I’m… sorry; I didn’t mean to get so deep into my issues. I’m not mad; I know that. It’s just, this door is something else. And my father knows that; it’s why he used it as a cornerstone of his little story, but it’s just - pretend. He just wants me to move back in with him. And I can’t. I just - can’t.

Sometimes you just have to leave. Even if what’s on the other side scares you.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends. (long sigh)

So it seems we did have Marcus McKenzie’s statement after all. I spent so long looking for it, back when I found his father’s and - (long inhale) - no luck.

But now I decide to start looking properly into Hill Top Road, and all of a sudden I’m drawn to rearrange a filing cabinet, and what do I find behind it?

I never thought I’d miss those days, when I could throw out some half-baked speculation about drug abuse or mental illness and whoosh - away all the statements went.

There is nothing in the world more reassuring than ignorance, which we can mistake for certainty.

But no. Almost every one of those statements, those - people. That poor old man.

Like I can talk. Like I’m in any position to mourn the suffering of the innocent.

But there is one thing I know an awful lot better now, than I did when I read his father’s statement:

I know an awful lot more about doors.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[EXT. HELEN’S DOOR]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST BANGS IMPATIENTLY ON HELEN’S DOOR, BREATHS HEAVING, UNTIL HELEN INDEED OPENS IT.]
HELEN
You rang?

[THERE’S A PERSISTENT STATIC IN THE BACKGROUND FROM THE MOMENT THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST
Marcus McKenzie. Why didn’t you tell me?

HELEN
Is that name supposed to mean something to me.

ARCHIVIST
(half laugh, half shudder) No. I suppose it wouldn’t. Just an old man and his son for you to terrorize and feast on.

HELEN
(all business) Oh, well; the son, I was pursuing long before I was even Michael. And technically, I didn’t eat the old man. He passed away from terror long before I got a chance to open properly.

ARCHIVIST
His son Marcus - he - he was fine when I read his father’s statement two years ago, but now, suddenly, I can’t get through to him.

HELEN
No. I imagine not. I decided it was time to finish that game a few months ago.

ARCHIVIST
You - Why?

HELEN
Not sure. I suppose Helen didn’t have quite the same attachment to him as a project. I’m not quite as much for decades-long campaigns of subtle terror these days.

ARCHIVIST
(soft) That’s horrible.

HELEN
Is it? We do what we need to do when it comes to feeding, don’t we? (pointed) Don’t we, Archivist?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

HELEN
It would be better if you embraced it.

ARCHIVIST
It’s not - Look, why were you trying to lure him into Hill Top Road?

HELEN
That? Oh. Well. That was just curiosity. I wanted to see what would happen.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t understand.

HELEN
There is something wrong with Hill Top Road. You know it as well as I do. Some strange scar on reality at the center of - whatever it is that the Spider is spinning.

When young Mr McKenzie passed, it seemed like a good opportunity for an experiment, to see what would happen if I lured him inside.

But it seems I just don’t have the Web’s gift for manipulation. Persuasion.

ARCHIVIST
Were you controlled?

HELEN
What a delightful thought. (short pause) I don’t believe so, no. But the Spider’s strings are subtle, so I suppose it’s not impossible. Why?

ARCHIVIST
I, I want to know: Can the Web control another avatar, one that serves another power?

[HELEN BEGINS TO LAUGH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Make them do things they don’t want to, make them -

[HE BREAKS OFF; HELEN IS CLEARLY GETTING TO HIM.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
- feed -

[HELEN KEEPS LAUGHING.]
HELEN
Oh, perhaps. Perhaps not. Would that make life easier for you? Are you so sure you didn’t want to?

[THE ARCHIVIST STARTS BREATHING HARDER AND HEAVIER, AS HELEN ERUPTS BACK INTO LAUGHTER. SHE CLOSES THE DOOR BEHIND HER.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Been a while since you’ve all come to see me together. I assume it’s not good news.

DAISY
No.

MELANIE
(spitting) What the hell have you been doing, Jon?

BASIRA
(cold, cold anger) Martin left a tape for us.

ARCHIVIST
And what exactly is on this t-

[HE CUTS OFF; BASIRA’S PULLED THE TAPE OUT, AND ONE WAY OR ANOTHER, HE KNOWS WHAT’S ON IT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(exhale) Oh.

MELANIE
Yes.

BASIRA
How many?

ARCHIVIST
Basira… I -

BASIRA
How many?

[SHORT PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
Four.

MELANIE
Jesus.

BASIRA
Including the one on the boat?

DAISY
What one on the boat?

ARCHIVIST
Including Floyd? Five.

MELANIE
Jesus!

BASIRA
Do I even want to know?

MELANIE
I do.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.
ARCHIVIST
Jess Tyrell, the woman on the tape - (sigh) - she was the fourth. I - I just tried to - I was weak. R-Ravenous, I,I,I didn’t feel -

The first was a supermarket cleaner, um, ended up lost for a week in an endless warehouse.

[IN THE BACKGROUND, WE HEAR MELANIE SIGH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I didn’t even - I, I just went in for some shopping, and he was there, and I just - asked. (inhale) The second was after I got stabbed by Melanie.

MELANIE
You are not putting this on me -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) No, that’s not what I meant. (shaky inhale) I was walking the streets; I - I thought I was trying to clear my head…

DAISY
But you were hunting.

ARCHIVIST
Apparently. I,I found a woman who, every year on her birthday, wakes up in a fresh grave, just for her.

DAISY
And the third was after the coffin.

ARCHIVIST
A man rejected by all who knew him, (inhale) searching ever-darker places for love. When he told me his story, he started weeping maggots.

BASIRA
Enough.

In the background, Melanie makes a disgusted noise.

ARCHIVIST
I hope so.

MELANIE
(exhale) Why didn’t you record them?

BASIRA
Why do you think? Because he was ashamed.

ARCHIVIST
(immediately) No; I-I mean, I don’t record anything anymore, not, not really; I just sort of assume they’ll turn on if it’s important.

BASIRA
Well, they didn’t.

ARCHIVIST
No, I suppose not.

[SILENCE, UNCOMFORTABLE AND TIGHT.]
[MELANIE EVENTUALLY BREAKS IT WITH A SIGH.]
MELANIE
So. What do we do now?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know.

BASIRA
You’re a danger, Jon. A monster. You’re hurting innocent people.

ARCHIVIST
So did Daisy.

BASIRA
Shut up. It’s not the same thing at all.

DAISY
Basira. He has a point.

BASIRA
You didn’t know what you were doing.

[DAISY MAKES A PAINED SOUND, AS IF TO CONTRADICT HER, BUT STOPS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
And since you did, you’ve spent every waking hour resisting. He knows exactly what he’s doing.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - It’s not that simple, i-i-it feels- (pause as he finds his words) I don’t know if I can control it; I don’t know if it’s even me doing it.

BASIRA
So you say you’re being controlled.

ARCHIVIST
I-I don’t know. Maybe. Th-The Web, i-

BASIRA
(overlapping) What, What was the name you said before? Annabelle Cane.

ARCHIVIST
…Yes, uh, she’s - she’s been watching us, I’m pretty sure of it.

MELANIE
Jon, I - I’m not sure that it’s actually the -

BASIRA
(overlapping) No. No, if he is being controlled, we need to know. And we need to know now Do you know where she is?

ARCHIVIST
(struggling) N-Not - Not properly, I,I - I think she has some connection to Hill Top Road.

BASIRA
Then we go. Now. Unless, anyone has any objections?

[LOTS OF EXHALING AND RUSTLING IN THE BACKGROUND. MELANIE BEGINS TO SAY SOMETHING, BUT -]
ARCHIVIST
Not from me.

BASIRA
(overlapping) You don’t get a vote.

MELANIE
Uh, okay, seriously- I’m going to have to be the one to point out that this is a terrible idea.

BASIRA
(determined inhale) Daisy?

DAISY
Be better if we could prepare.

MELANIE
I-I just think - that - we shouldn’t be exposing ourselves like this until we have a little bit more than a hunch.

ARCHIVIST
She does have a point.

MELANIE
I - didn’t ask you.

[JON SIGHS.]
BASIRA
‘Kay fine, I’ll go, then. I’ll do some recon on my own, and update you.

[AS SHE SPEAKS, SHE PUSHES OUT OF HER SEAT AND HEADS FOR THE DOOR.]
MELANIE
Wait, hang on!

DAISY
Basira…

BASIRA
I’ll tell you all what I find. Don’t let him eat anyone’s brain while I’m gone.

ARCHIVIST
(sullen) That’s not what I do.

[BASIRA OPENS THE DOOR.]
MELANIE
B- Basira- Come, come on.

[BASIRA LEAVES, SHUTTING THE DOOR BEHIND HER.]
[MELANIE SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Well, that was…

DAISY AND MELANIE
Shut up.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
(half a question, half statement) So, we’re going with her.

DAISY
(sigh) Come on, Mel. I’ll see if I’ve got a stab vest in your size.

[MELANIE PUSHES OUT OF HER SEAT AS SHE TALKS.]
MELANIE
Yeah. Sure.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. OXFORD, 105 HILL TOP ROAD]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
BASIRA
Heads up.

ARCHIVIST
The tape.

[A COUPLE OF FOOTSTEPS.]
BASIRA
Something’s here.

MELANIE
No shit! Look at this place.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

[THERE’S A SOUND LIKE A DOOR BEING CLOSED IN THE BACKGROUND; IT SEEMS LIKE SOMEONE, LIKELY DAISY, IS CHECKING OVER THE HOUSE. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS. AS HE DOES:]
MELANIE
When did you say they finished rebuilding?

ARCHIVIST
2008?

[MORE FOOTSTEPS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Doesn’t look like anyone ever moved in, though.

BASIRA
So this is - ten years of cobwebs?

DAISY
More than that.

[FOOTSTEPS.
MELANIE
(heavy sarcasm) No, I’m sure this is just the normal number of webs that grow up organically.

BASIRA
So - where are all the spiders?

MELANIE
I - I mean, they hide.

[MORE FOOTSTEPS.]
MELANIE (CONT’D)
You know, it’s a thing they do, spiders; they hide.

DAISY
Perhaps they bugged out.

[SLIGHT PAUSE, BUT FOR FOOTSTEPS.]
ARCHIVIST
Was that a joke?

BASIRA
Jon, focus. Are you getting any sense of anything? Can you… See anything?

ARCHIVIST
No, I’m just seeing what you’re seeing. Still a bit weak from my trip up north, to be honest.

MELANIE
(drier than the Sahara) Sorry we couldn’t stop for a snack.

[BASIRA SNICKERS. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
[FOOTSTEPS AGAIN, AND DAISY HANDS THEM ALL SOMETHING.]
DAISY
Here, Mel.

MELANIE
What even are these?

DAISY
Magnesium flares. Technically not legal anymore; if you need more, just shout.

MELANIE
Oh. Fine. Uh - and, and - please don’t call me Mel.

DAISY
What? Since when?

MELANIE
Always. I’m - (sigh) - trying to be more open about this stuff.

DAISY
Roger wilco, Miss King.

MELANIE
(hm) Better.

[A DOOR OPENS.]
BASIRA
These flares going to work?

DAISY
No idea, but Jon said the Web doesn’t get on great with fire, and we don’t exactly have a flamethrower, so -

BASIRA
I mean, at least until we find the one Gertrude stocked up.

[SOMEONE SHAKILY EXHALE-LAUGHS IN THE BACKGROUND.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
Right next to the nukes.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sure the flares will work fine. (slight pause) I mean, un, unless it’s all an elaborate plan to have us burn this place down again.

BASIRA
So what if it is?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t follow.

BASIRA
I mean, anything we do could be part of the “grand master plan.” So, what - we do nothing? Just sit on our hands and hope that’s not what the Spider wants?

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS. BUT IT’S MELANIE THAT JUMPS IN:]
MELANIE
Right, sure, but it wouldn’t hurt to have a bit more of a plan, would it?

ARCHIVIST
Exactly.

BASIRA
You want to come back later?

MELANIE
(insistent/explosive) Yes! That’s what I said, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
(large sigh) Well, we’re here now. Might as well push on.

MELANIE
(narrowed eyes) Famous last words.

[ANOTHER DOOR IS OPENED; DAISY EMERGES AND SHUTS IT BEHIND HER.]
DAISY
Clear. Looks like nothing downstairs.

BASIRA
You wanna - take a moment before we head up?

ARCHIVIST
What about the basement?

DAISY
Can’t see one.*

[*AS A MATTER OF COURSE, MUSIC CUES TEND NOT TO BE NOTED IN EPISODE TRANSCRIPTS. HOWEVER, THE CUE OF HIGH, TREMOLOUS VIOLIN THAT COMES IN THE MOMENT DAISY FINISHES SPEAKING IS BOTH SURPRISING AND, SUBSEQUENTLY, CHILLING ENOUGH THAT I FELT IT OUGHT TO BE MENTIONED HERE.]
ARCHIVIST
Huh.

DAISY
You want me to take point?

ARCHIVIST
Uh - no. No, I’ve, I’ve got it.

[THEY ALL BEGIN TO TAKE THE STAIRS; THE ARCHIVIST’S STEPS ARE HEAVY, AND THE STAIRS CREAK UNDER HIS WEIGHT. AS HE CONTINUES CLIMBING, BREATHS COMING HEAVY, A STRANGELY FAMILIAR VOICE BEGINS TO RESOLVE FROM THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
You hear that?

BASIRA
No, I don’t hear-

MELANIE
(shushes vigorously) Yes! Room on the left.

[THE VOICE RESOLVES COMPLETELY.]
[IT’S THE ARCHIVIST.]
[HIS VOICE IS CLEARLY ON TAPE, AND IT SOON BECOMES CLEAR THAT THE RECORDING PLAYING IS THAT OF CASE #0122204 (MAG #1: “ANGLERFISH.”)]
[THE FOLLOWING EXCERPT PLAYS, AND GAINS IN VOLUME, AS THE OTHERS SPEAK OVER IT:]
ARCHIVIST (RECORDING)
- organisation dedicated to academic research into the esoteric and the paranormal. The head of the Institute, Mr. Elias Bouchard, has employed me to replace the previous Head Archivist, one Gertrude Robinson, who has recently passed away.

MELANIE
Is that? -

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

BASIRA
Don’t touch it.

ARCHIVIST
It’s alright.

[HE STEELS HIMSELF WITH A BRACING BREATH, HESITATES FOR A MOMENT, THEN- TURNS THE TAPE OFF.]
DAISY
Something underneath it.

ARCHIVIST
I see it. Uh - Hand me that brush?

[HE BEGINS TO RETRIEVE THE OBJECT.]
BASIRA
Is - that what I think it is?

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Yep.

[HE HOLDS THE OBJECT UP; WE HEAR IT RUSTLE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Official Institute paper and everything.

[HE EXHALES.]
BASIRA
Goddamnit.

ARCHIVIST
Statement of Annabelle Cane. She left it for us.

MELANIE
Honestly don’t know what else you guys were expecting.

BASIRA
Well, that’s it, then.

[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A SHAKY BREATH.]
BASIRA
Come on, let’s finish up and get out of here.

ARCHIVIST
I - I mean - Are we burning it?

MELANIE
The statement or the building?

DAISY
Both?

BASIRA
Don’t tempt me.

[THE GIRLS ALL LAUGH.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. OXFORD, 105 HILL TOP ROAD, UPSTAIRS TAPE ROOM.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of - (sigh) - Annabelle Cane. Regarding her history and her observations of the Magnus Institute, London. Original statement written 20th July, 2018. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Free will is a funny old thing, isn’t it Jon? Can I call you Jon? I’m going to call you Jon.

Such a strange concept, woven from a thousand different ignorances and experiences, a faculty we only ever truly ascribe to ourselves, and - I suppose, to our gods.

With any other animal, we talk about instinct, we talk about training; perhaps, if we have spent enough time with them, we talk about personality. But we never talk about choice. We never look at a dog chasing wildly after a thrown ball and think “What an odd decision that dog has made.”

We talk about workings of its mind, and instincts; if it doesn’t chase the ball, we wonder why: Is it sick, is it tired? Perhaps something in the nature of this particular breed, this particular dog, makes it prone to ignoring a game of fetch.

The idea of a dog simply choosing not to chase feels deeply unnatural. Is it even capable of legitimately making a decision; some would say no.

Of course, people are very different from dogs. Our brains are larger. More complex. So many more little factors and wrinkles to push us and pull us - but does any of that actually constitute free will?

Free of what? We all have forces that drive us, circumstances that direct us, and even if we choose to ignore these and act against all logic, just to prove that we can - is that not simply allowing the existential terror of our own powerlessness to control us instead?

Scans show decisions are made by your brain long before your conscious mind even has a chance to register them. Most of one’s life is simply spent looking back and convincing yourself that you chose deliberately to act like you did.

Hm. Have you ever read War and Peace, Jon? I know, I know; I had to read an extract for a literature class once, ended up reading the whole thing.

Another life.

It’s not actually as boring as people say, and its central thesis is that the tiniest, most insignificant factors can control the destiny of the world.

In its post-script, Tolstoy muses on the concept of free will, on whether or not he really believes in it. He ultimately decides that if all the millions upon millions of factors that weigh upon our choices were fully and completely known, then all could be foreseen and predetermined.

But, he argues, it is quite impossible for the human mind to comprehend even a fraction of these. And in that vast, dark space of ignorance lies: free will.

Isn’t that marvelous, Jon? Free will is simply ignorance. It’s just the name we give to the fact that no one can ever really see everything that controls them.

Of course, that’s not the real crux of the free will question that’s bothering you at the moment, is it? I think that one probably comes down to whether or not you’re choosing to continue reading this statement out loud.

You didn’t mean to, did you? No, I’m sure you told Basira and Melanie that you were going to glance over it and report back; perhaps they asked you if you were going to record, and you shook your head: maybe later.

That sounds like the sort of thing you’d say.

But think about it, Jon; when’s the last time you were able to read a statement quietly to yourself without instinctively hitting record and speaking it aloud? Is it just instinct, habit? Or is it a compulsion, a string pulled by the Ceaseless Watcher or the Mother of Puppets?

Or both?

I know the summaries have started to confuse you; where did they come from, when you read a statement fresh? How do you just - know what it’s about, before you even start to read it?

But by then you’re away; the roller coaster is dropping, and you’ve no real choice but to hold on and hope that - I don’t crash you.

I’m afraid I don’t actually have these answers for you; I’ve simply been… watching. I’m sure you understand that.

Maybe I’ve occasionally been nudging something here and there to keep you safe, to keep everything on track. But I know you’ve been more worried about your choices, about whether you’re being controlled by me, or by the Mother.

So I thought perhaps I should leave a little something to reassure you that, yes, your actions and choices have all been your own.

Have they been controlled? No more than gravity controls you when you walk, or hunger controls you when you choose your meal. There are certainly new forces, new instincts and desires, that shape your actions; perhaps you’re unprepared for them.

But if you choose to believe in a free will, then yes: All you have done has been of your own free will. They have all been your choices.

Now, I believe the tradition is to tell you the story of my life, the sinister path that led me to the sorry state in which I now find myself.

Well, let it never be said that I do not dance the steps I am assigned.

I was born into what most would consider a large family. My father worked constantly, and my mother was overwhelmed, leaving some of the older children to watch over the younger ones. Some rose to this responsibility; others deeply resented it and took no pains to hide the fact.

I was one of the youngest, and it soon became clear to my infant mind that in order to get anywhere, the key was to navigate the baroque family politics in which I found myself.

I became very good at it. I would instigate fights between siblings if I needed them in trouble. If I required sympathy, I would bite myself until I drew blood, and then blame it on my sister Lizzie. I discovered a deep and enduring talent inside myself for lying.

My manipulations were not intricate, but they were far beyond what was expected of a child my age, and I have always believed that the key to manipulating people is to ensure that they always under- or over-estimate you. Never reveal your true abilities or plans.

Of course, I learned many of my skills from my mother, who could wield guilt like a rapier and anger like a scalpel. She never simply screamed at you. She was always aware of exactly what kind of fury or disappointment was needed to make sure you regretted ever catching her attention. She had eight children, yet weaved that life around herself in such a way that she always seemed both the victim of it, yet curiously divorced of any responsibility.

In many ways, she was the victim, at least of my father, whose pathological absence spoke of a man who had no interest whatsoever in engaging with the life where he had trapped his family.

However well I had learned my lessons, it was clear that happiness was not something I could have; within that family there was simply too much that I couldn’t control.

My biggest attempt to assert some sort of influence over my family was when I decided to run away. In my childish mind, I was certain that my disappearance would destabilize the entire family unit, allowing me to take my rightful place as the most important child upon my return.

An infantile fantasy, perhaps, but one I was keen to realize. I intended to stay away for two days and two nights. I took a backpack and filled it with as much food as I could carry (which was barely enough for a decent lunch,) my favorite blanket, and the only book I could say belonged to only me: Five Go Down to the Sea. And then I left.

We lived in Hunstanton, in Norfolk, about twenty minutes walk from the beach, and it was late spring, so I wasn’t at all worried about the temperature.

I had chosen where I was to spend the two days I disappeared some weeks before. The air was warm and humid as I snuck out of the house, filled with that slight scent of salt that even now, changed as I am, I sometimes find myself missing here, in the grimy air of London.

If you walked down the short hill from Hunstanton Town Centre and towards the beach, and took a right just before you reached it, you could find yourself on a small stretch of sand that seemed oddly quiet.

Most days, it was completely deserted, and even on those holidays where the number of sunbathers was so high no part of the beach could fully escape them, it would only have a handful of dedicated loungers lying around, quietly reading and studiously ignoring their own unease.

Exactly why it remained like that and no one seemed to notice - still a mystery to me, even now. But whatever the cause, it was a shunned place, and sitting on the side of the road above it, casting a thick, angular shadow, was the squat brick structure of the old chip shop.

I’d never seen it open. No one had, as far as I could tell. It was painted a dark blue, that never quite matched any color of sky that was behind it, and had a hand-lettered sign that could still be seen covering much of the bare left hand wall in curling, faded typeface.

CHIPS, it said.

The old chip shop had been around longer than I’d been alive, probably longer, and its silent one-story silhouette had always unsettled me. It was only looking back that I realized how few windows it had: Just one, tiny panel of glass either side of the big doors.

The rest of the structure was just - plain unadorned brickwork.

I don’t really know why I decided to hide there, but assuming you’ve been paying attention, I’m sure you understand by now how little that means. Perhaps deep down, I simply knew it would be unlocked.

The sun was setting by the time I reached it, and if there had been any tourists trying to enjoy the beach in that place, they were long since gone. I was utterly alone, the only sound a few distant seagulls screaming to be fed as they circled aimlessly looking for food.

Against the vivid red-orange of the sky, the old chip shop seemed almost black, like a fallen obelisk. A light rain began to patter down, and I, not having had the foresight to pack an umbrella, ran to it.

I opened the door as quickly and quietly as I could. Inside it was warm and dry, and dust coated everything. I struggled more than once not to sneeze, something I was convinced would somehow alert my family to where I was. So I crawled under one of the counters, and soon enough, sleep had come for me.

I awoke to the sound of rhythmic clattering, the noise of wood striking wood in a complex, intricate pattern. I got up, more curious than fearful at that moment, and took few, tentative steps towards it.

The sound seemed to be coming from one of the back rooms, and seeing as how light seeped from only one of the doors, it seemed to me pretty obvious which room contained my answer.

So I went inside. Another action which, looking bact after the fact, I found myself pleasingly baffled by.

Inside was a young woman I did not recognize, sat at what I would later learn was an old-fashioned wooden loom. Her eyes and face were sunken, her hands and arms a blur as the machine pressed on. They arced over and through the loom, and I could see much of her inner forearms and legs were covered in tiny holes, small red pinpricks like insect bites.

Looking back, of course, and remembering the crunch of used syringes beneath my feet, I realize that addiction is one of the strongest vectors of control there is.

The woman looked up at me, disinterested, and I saw that the threads of the loom were laced into her skin, all through her track marks, and that dozens of spiders ran up and down those weaving threads and scurried in and out of the holes in her skin.

Her eyes met mine, and traveled upwards towards the ceiling. I followed her gaze for barely five seconds before I fled home, and abandoned my plans to run away entirely.

I may have decided not to describe what I saw up there. I will only say that it is what engendered in me that terror of spiders which eventually led to my volunteering at Surrey University!

I will simply say that - when a spider reaches a certain size, it is often not entirely made up of spider anymore.

So how much free will was involved in that story? What could I have chosen to change? Would a different path have been possible?

I felt no loss of control, no puppet strings guided me. And yet, the Mother got exactly the result she no doubt wanted, one that would lead to a fear of spiders so acute that I could later have that horror focused and refined into a silk-spun apotheosis.

Unless, of course, none of it was intentional. None of it was planned. The Mother is the fear of manipulation and lost control made manifest. So perhaps it is our fear that projects her influence on everything that happens.

Like the mind: retrospectively assigning reason to our actions, so we fit whatever occurs into the neatest pattern we can, and declare her web both intricate and complete.

Perhaps she is no more active than Terminus, simply sitting and reveling in the inevitable cascade of paranoia, as those who hold her in special terror cocoon themselves in red string and theory.

Or perhaps I am simply telling you what you need to hear in order to ensure you behave exactly as the Mother wishes you to.

Perhaps I have never even seen a beach.

[A LIGHT STATIC TURNS ON IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Don’t go to Hill Top Road again.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

That was, uh… I didn’t - I, I, I didn’t like that. I couldn’t -

[HE CUTS HIMSELF OFF, SEEMS TO STRUGGLE, THEN MAKES A FRUSTRATED NOISE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
So. She is watching the Institute. Interfering with things. (slight soft gasp, more of frustration than surprise) Is that reassuring, or merely really bad?

I can’t say I’m… I can’t say I’m sad to have another ally allegedly on our side, but I don’t like the idea of being important to the Web.

That’s a really bad place to be.

Annabelle’s right, though. I mean, I can’t trust anything she says to not be another lie to further manipulate and maneuver us, but deep down I think she’s right.

What I’ve been doing to these people, it - it hasn’t been because I was puppeted, or controlled, or possessed.

I wanted to do it. It felt good.

But at least I know I can stop; I just - don’t know how. I - (he sighs) I don’t - want to stop. (ugh) Goddamn, this one really took it out of me. I need to go lie down. (uh) End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ELIAS
Good evening, Detective.

[BASIRA IMMEDIATELY ASSAULTS HIM.]
Ow!

BASIRA
Useless, scheming piece of shit!

ELIAS
- Detective, this is quite unnecessary -

[ANGRY NOISE]
[FURTHER VIOLENCE]
BASIRA
I’m sorry, was that unnecessary?

ELIAS
Ow!

BASIRA
Because this is the most helpful you’ve been so far!

Unless you’ve got another crisis for me.

ELIAS
[gasping] No, no, no - it’s fine… I’m sorry?

BASIRA
Oh, yeah? For which part?

ELIAS
…all of it?

BASIRA
You sent us to the North fucking Pole for no goddamn reason!

ELIAS
A, um, miscalculation -

BASIRA
No, no, I’m done with your game -

ELIAS
That’s - Basira -

BASIRA
And when exactly were you planning to tell us he’s been feeding on innocents?!

ELIAS
- I’ve - I’ve always thought that a man’s eating habits were his own private business -

BASIRA
Mm-hm.

ELIAS
- but… I can see how maybe I should have mentioned it.

BASIRA
Or that we were being stalked by some freaky spider woman? Don’t tell me you didn’t know about that.

ELIAS
Uh, yes, well, to be honest I - I’d advise you to leave that one well alone.

BASIRA
Oh, yeah?

ELIAS
Look, look - I’ve been doing this a long time now, and if there’s one thing I’ve learned about the Web, it’s that it plays its own game. All you can really do is hope it doesn’t get in the way of whatever your plan is. Because the Spider usually wins.

Assuming you have a plan.

Do you have a plan, Detective?

BASIRA
Why do you do that? What is that?

ELIAS
Do what?

BASIRA
You always call me “Detective.” Is that supposed to mean something?

ELIAS
Honestly, I just like the way it sounds.

BASIRA
[exasperated noise]

So: why did you agree to see me?

ELIAS
I missed you.

BASIRA
Right. That’s why you’ve been refusing my visits since we got back.

ELIAS
I thought it might have… been an idea to give you some space.

BASIRA
Oh? And how’d that work out for you?

ELIAS
Um, not ideally?

BASIRA
So what now? Another wild goose chase? More gloating about John’s “destiny?” Because right now, I’m having a real hard time figuring out why I shouldn’t just tell them to throw your little deal out the window, and see how you do in here without special treatment.

ELIAS
I mean, you have plenty of reasons to do that, of course, but I’m not sure that they have any reason to listen to you.

BASIRA
I’ll make them listen.

ELIAS
Will you? You’re not police anymore. You’ve done them some favors, but they’ve done you some, as well. And I think you’ll find the information that I’ve been giving to them has been far more consistently useful. You want to issue an ultimatum? go right ahead. I’m just not sure it’ll go quite how you hope.

And, um, no more violence, Detective. Or I may have to call in the guards.

BASIRA
So that’s it, then.

ELIAS
As far as I can tell, you have no interest in anything I have to say, and maybe came here to let off some steam - so, yes, that’s probably it.

BASIRA
Surprised you didn’t foresee it.

ELIAS
Well, that’s always been my problem. Ever the optimist.

BASIRA
You know, when you have no more useful information and they’re done with you -

ELIAS
You’ll kill me. Yes. I’m sorry to say it, Detective, but you’re becoming predictable.

BASIRA
[exasperated noise]

ELIAS
Goodbye, Detective. I shall miss our little chats.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Well?

BASIRA
Just useless gloating. Like I said he would.

ARCHIVIST
You should have let me come with.

BASIRA
No. Besides, he wouldn’t have seen me if I had.

ARCHIVIST
I can’t believe you’ve been seeing him all this time.

BASIRA
Oh, yeah. That’s the terrible secret sabotaging the trust between us.

ARCHIVIST
[huff]

…Did he mention it at all…? My, uh…

BASIRA
Oh, your new diet? Nothing useful. Didn’t seem too fazed by it.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
What.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know - I mean, we still don’t really know what Elias actually is? I thought maybe if he was more like me than we realize…

BASIRA
He might have some advice?

ARCHIVIST
Stupid, I know…

BASIRA
Yeah. John, We’ve been over this. the key is to not force people to feed you their trauma. You know - just don’t do it?

ARCHIVIST
It’s not that simple.

BASIRA
No. It is. Or I put you down.

ARCHIVIST
…

I mean, that’s hardly -

BASIRA
Daisy’s been managing.

ARCHIVIST
Daisy is… yeah. She’s managing.

Did he say anything about Annabelle?

BASIRA
Not really. Sounds like he’s not too worried, though. Says to just ignore it.

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, good luck with that.

BASIRA
Any luck finding her?

ARCHIVIST
I haven’t really been trying. Doing that sort of thing consciously… makes me hungry.

BASIRA
Oh, well then: find a statement to your tastes, and read it.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, yes, I know, thank you.

…Basira?

BASIRA
Yeah?

ARCHIVIST
I have been meaning to ask: the tape, the one of the uh… my victim. You said Martin gave it to you.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
How was he? How did he look - was he - uh -

BASIRA
[interrupting; sounding slightly less harsh] I don’t know. I didn’t see him. He just left it on my desk with a note.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Right.

BASIRA
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Can I ask what it said?

BASIRA
Um, yeah. It said, uh. “Talk to him”

ARCHIVIST
[harsh breathing/sobbing sounds]

I’m gonna get something to eat.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sunil Maraj regarding their work as a security guard and the disappearance of their co-worker, Samson Stiller. Original statement given 3rd April, 2011. Audio recording by Jonathan Simms, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So I lost my job last week. I mean, I quit, they didn’t fire me or nothing. But you know how like sometimes you quit because you want to, and sometimes you quit because you’ve got to? Well, this was the second, although I’m not gonna pretend I’m not glad to see the back of the place.

It’s ‘cause I kept asking about Samson, you know? And what I saw. And they really, really don’t want me to make a stink about that. Because if he just disappeared one day, didn’t come into work, that’s fine - I mean, not fine for his family, obviously, or the police who have to find him, but fine for the company. If he disappeared at work, though - if what I think happened is even close to what actually happened - then that’s real bad news for them, and opens them up to all sorts of lawsuits and liability.

I mean, it’s fine, I can get other jobs, and it’s not like I really want to be working there after what happened, but I just wish someone would take it seriously. It’s messed up, and I’m having a real hard time getting out of my head.

So, I work security right? Used to be, a company or shop would have its own little security force they put together, did all the in-store and CCTV vigilance stuff. These days, it’s all centralized, though. You tend to have a building or a shopping central contract all the security work out to a single company, who’ll then cover all the businesses or shops. It’s easier, from a centralizing point of view, and cheaper, if that’s what the owners like.

But it does mean that there tends to be a lot less stability and how it’s all structured, personnel-wise, at least. If you’re lucky, you’ll be assigned to a post and stay there for years, getting to know the place, the systems, your co-workers. If you’re unlucky, or there’s contract difficulties, you could easily end up moving through two or three different places in as many months.

That was kind of the case for me and Samson. We were the odd men out in a lot of ways. We’d originally been brought in for a big corporate office block near Liverpool Street, but there’d been some problem and the whole place had to be closed up for months. Samson said they found asbestos, I heard it was a lease issue, but it doesn’t really matter. Point is, they hired us for a job that no longer existed.

I expected they’d just get rid of us, but I mean to their credit, they did try to do right. They did their best to fit us in with other security teams: I mean, over the last two years we did a couple of data centers, a digital marketing hub - whatever that is - three different office buildings near Kings Cross… trouble was, every time, almost as soon as we got there, there’d be some personnel changes, or expiring contracts, or some other trouble, and generally, as the last in the door, we were the first to get reassigned. Started to feel a bit like we were cursed, you know?

Samson took it harder than I did. I mean, I’m young, my mum’s got a flat in Hackney, and to be honest, most of my evenings are out with friends or in with black ops, so the moving around was pretty much fine with me. Sam had a three-year-old, though, and lived way down in Morden, so being thrown from one post to another all the time was really kind of getting to him. He tried to talk to me about it a few times, but honestly, we weren’t that close. Or rather, we were close because we’d always worked together, but we didn’t have a huge amount in common. I mean, I tried to talk to him about football for a while, but I think he could tell I was talking out of my ass. Anyway, point is, when we were reassigned to a shopping centre in Stratford, he wasn’t in a great place.

Now, I’m not sure I can legally name the shopping center I was working in to you guys, but let’s just say it wasn’t the Westfield. It was old, clearly been around decades, and the security systems really showed it. I mean, one of the shops still had the original alarms from the late 70s, and plenty of them still had cameras that recorded to VHS, for God’s sake.

The security office was a mess. The company I worked for - again, dunno if I can legally say them, but you can look it up, you know - they have a package where they replace all your equipment and systems with the stuff we use. It’s not cheap, but it’s worth it, if only because we all know exactly how to use that stuff.

Whoever was running this shopping center had very much not opted for that particular contract. I mean, the teams before us had made a valiant effort to centralize and integrate all the feeds and setups into just the one control room, but… damn, that place was a mess. Flat screens, next to banks of old CRT monitors that some of the cameras had to feed into, next to racks of channel banks, and a few actual, honest-to-god computers, that tried their best to wrestle everything into something that was almost usable.

I found it properly overwhelming, didn’t like the place at all. But Sam actually seemed to get on with it pretty well almost from the get-go. He’d apparently been an engineer back in the day, and something about all those old surveillance systems, all tied together, all wrapping into and around each other like some weird nest of cameras… it seemed to really appeal to him. The first week he was there he spent almost the entire time playing with the system and the wiring… left me to do most of the other work on my own. Well, I mean… there were the other guys working there, of course, but even the ones who’d been there awhile started to get the picture and gave Samson a bit of a wide berth after a few days.

He really did seem to get the place in a bit better order. I mean, some of it, only he really understood, but soon enough it actually made sense - what we were watching and when - and he managed to get rid of some of the delay, so that we even managed to catch a couple of shoplifters.

There was only one piece of equipment that seemed to give him any trouble. It was this old Tecton multicamera recorder from the late 80s, managed the feeds for one of the various budget shoe shops that lined the promenade.

It didn’t seem all that complicated when you just looked at it, but trying to use it was an absolute nightmare. None the buttons seemed to do exactly what you wanted them to do, and there were all sorts of sequences where pressing a button, holding a button, pressing it three times, all that - they’d all do really different things.

Sam spent almost a whole month wrestling with it, before he finally cracked and he asked Dave - the bearded old guy who we all sort of assumed had been there the longest? - whether they still had any of the old operating manuals.

I remember the smell of dust when Dave went and cracked open the filing cabinet in the back room, before waving his arms in the direction of the drawer and shrugging. I mean, I’d have just left it, obviously, but I think Samson was taking the whole knowing how the system works thing as like - a point of pride? Something he could salvage from the whole situation. Just a way of getting some control over his life, you know?

So he found the manual. More of a pamphlet, really. Can’t have been more than ten pages of A5 in the whole thing, yellowed and water-damaged. Well-used, though. Someone had even put their name in the front, like they were afraid people were gonna steal a manky instruction book.

Still, Sam just couldn’t put it down. I mean, it was like 10 in the morning when we finally found it, and when I went in at 2:00 to see if he’d taken his lunch break yet, he was still sat there, just staring at it. I mean, I’m not a fast reader, or anything but that’s a lot, right?

And like - okay, so this is the part that you’re definitely gonna think I’m having a joke with you, but I’m honestly not, I’m dead serious. Because I saw some of the pages over his shoulder, and on one of them there was, there was a picture of me.

Like, a black-and-white photo of my face. I didn’t get a good look, but it certainly wasn’t one that I remember having taken. Not that would make it any less weird for it to be printed in an old CCTV manual from back when I was doing nappies. And I’m not making it up, I swear.

Then Samson turned, and he looked at me, and I don’t know, I got real spooked. His eyes were all - messed up. Like, weird. And glassy. It was really, really freaky, and I just turned and I got out of there. That wasn’t the end of it, though. If it had been then sure, maybe I write it off as a weird dream, where I was tired or whatever, but no. Because from that point, on Samson just gets creepier.

For a start, he’s always at work. I mean, we’re not always on the same shift, so it takes me a while to notice, but when I ask him about it, he just says that our schedules must have synced up weird. But whenever I arrived, there he was, staring at the monitors, watching all the people come and go, his eyes wide like he was drinking it all in. And whenever I was there late, and it was my turn to close up, he’d always say that he was happy to do it, say I could head off a few minutes early.

So, I never actually saw him leave. I tried to stay once, said I needed to do it myself, but he just got real quiet, like… real quiet, and stared at me.

The bank of monitors was behind him, and I’m just trying to come up with something to say, get him to talk to me… and one by one, they began to just wink off, turning dark.

And I got this feeling, deep in my gut, that if that last monitor turned off, then something really bad was gonna happen to me. It was one of the old CRT sets, big, and bulky, and the picture on it was never that clear, but for a moment it looked like it was me on there. Staring right back at myself as the screens slowly went black, getting closer and closer. The face on the monitor looked absolutely terrified, and I was starting to feel it myself.

So I just tried to smile, told him not to worry about it, and I headed out as quick as I could. My legs were shaking so hard I almost fell on the way out.

Then there were the actual cameras. I mean, you work in a shopping center, obviously you do a bunch of shopping there. I used to get my lunch, for one, and usually pick up any of the essentials I needed. Sometimes, if I was feeling hard done by and it was payday, I might buy myself a new shirt, or a game, or something.

And obviously, because I work security, I know where all the cameras are. where they cover, even how they move. A lot of them are completely static, just pointing at one place. But gradually, I start to notice something when I’m shopping. It’s like a tickling, creeping sensation all over the back of my neck. Like I’m being watched.

So I start to keep an eye on the cameras when I’m in the shops, and you know what, I’m right. They’re following me. Whenever I look at them - doesn’t matter where it was they were meant to be aimed - they’re always focused right on me.

I keep staring at them, moving around, and they just shift to keep the lens pointed at me. But they’re not articulated, they don’t have any motor or swivel mount they just… move. Pointed right at me.

One time, when no one in the store was looking, I threw a can of deodorant at one of them. Hit it square on. Samson wore sunglasses for the next two days, and when I caught a glimpse of him without them, there was a crack right down the center of his eye.

I tried to talk to the others. I’m pretty sure that they were getting similar weirdness from them. they were all jumpy and nervous those last few months. But I was known as Sam’s friend. We’d come in together and everyone just assumed we were close. When I started to ask about it, about what was going on, they just clammed up like I was trying to get them in trouble. My nerves were all shot to hell.

I wasn’t in work the week he disappeared. I’d called in with a bullshit stomach thing. I just needed a break, some time to get my head right. It was almost working, you know? A little distance, a little space to relax. I was starting to feel good.

Then I got the call from Dave. He was frantic.

I couldn’t make out half of what he was saying over the bad line, but he kept saying Samson’s name. Asking me if I “knew,” if he’d “told me.”

I had no idea what he was talking about, but he kept screaming at me. He kept saying, I must know, he must have told me what was going on. He kept saying, “what do we do with his eyes?”

I mean, I didn’t know what the hell to say, I just went quiet listening to Dave as he started sobbing down the phone

“He won’t stop,” he said. “We can’t get rid of his face.”

I hung up. And Dave was gone when I went back in. A bunch of them were, all quit suddenly. I wanted to check in with them, find out what happened, but we’d never really been friends, and I didn’t know any of their details.

I never saw Samson again, either. Though, I did find his old work shirt in the back. It was torn to shreds, wrapped around that old instruction manual. I put it back in the filing cabinet, and I threw the shirt away.

I tried to stick around, to do my job, but I was asking too many questions for the folks upstairs, I think. I wanted to know why Samson hadn’t signed out of the building before he disappeared. Why, no matter who tried to reset the system, it always logged back in as him.

Why, whenever I was watching the monitors alone, I’d see him on that old CRT screen. Staring right back at me. Quietly calling for me to join him.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

[exhale] Hm. Better.

Does reading a statement of the Ceaseless Watcher count as a sort of auto-cannibalism, I wonder? Or some sort of bird-like regurgitation of fear? Re-consuming secondhand terror.

Whatever the analogy, I’m finding it harder and harder to ignore the diminishing returns - how much less satisfaction each one gives me. My desire for follow-up, for verification, for… [frustrated laugh/sputter] proper digestion - the experience, it grows less and less.

I honestly don’t care if Mr. Maraj was chased down and consumed by his voyeuristic former friend, or if he has forgotten the whole affair, living in blissful ignorance.

I just find my mind already wandering to the next statement, in the hopes that it won’t be quite as stale.

End recording.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
MARTIN
Martin Blackwood, assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute. Recording statement number 0131305. Statement of Judith O’Neill, given May 13th, 2013.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
It’s weird the things that land you a job sometimes. I mean, a First from Corpus Christi Cambridge, a Master’s in biological sciences, you’d think that would be enough to get a decent science job. But as it turns out, the competition these days is legitimately ridiculous and trying to get a position based on my academic record seemed to be a complete waste of time.

Then I applied to the Anglo-Brazilian Amazon Trust, and you know what actually got me the job? I had a half blue in modern pentathlon

and another in orienteering from my undergrad days. Apparently most of the science positions were generally applied to you by the sort of people who pursued academia specifically to avoid ever having to climb up a hill,

and the job required a certain degree of outdoorsmanship. It didn’t even matter that I didn’t speak Portuguese. Well, not, back then. It was enough that I had the knowledge, fitness, and most importantly, was willing to basically chuck in my entire life in England with no notice to fly off to Brazil for who knows how long. Strange how things work out sometimes, isn’t it?

The job title was technically ‘ecological specimen technician’, but working with the ABAT was basically nothing like any lab tech job I’ve ever had before. For a start, there wasn’t a lab, not really. They built this facility just on the edge of the Caracara ecological station, and from a distance you’d think it was just this big wooden hut, and it kind of was, just full of incredibly high-tech kit. There was basically no testing done on-site though. Aside from the computers, the visiting researchers used to just make whatever notes or observations or run whatever on the models they needed. Basically everything on-site was designed for quick storage and processing any specimens for travel.

Keeping a lab environment up and running in the middle of the Amazon was never really an option, so most of our job was focused on retrieving whatever they wanted testing, and - and making sure that it got to the actual lab intact,

wherever that might have been. I was part of the facility’s permanent staff, and we were generally hired out by corporations or universities who wanted to use our services for some project or piece of research they were conducting. My specific job was to head out into the jungle, usually babysitting some weedy wannabe explorers who insisted on coming along, and then snag whatever they needed to retrieve. Could be environmental measurements, tree cuttings, water samples, and even small animals, though we’re not legally allowed to take anything bigger than a frog. It’s actually really interesting work, although you do start to get a little bored of the same 50 square miles of jungle after you’ve been doing it for a few years. And we’re very careful to stick to the bits of the jungle we’ve been assigned, as we’re right next to the Yanomami indigenous territory, and accidentally crossing into it ends up being a bit… politically complicated, and even pretty dangerous if you cross paths with the wrong group. The Yanomami can get pretty territorial. I mean, I guess you would be too if you had that many companies trying to illegally strip mine your land? Still, it’s not usually a problem. We stay in our area, they stay in theirs.

The worst part is the number of dickhead scientists. You turn up with the same played out Cannibal Holocaust jokes. It’s like, sure, technically they practice endocannibalism, but it’s just the bone ash of their relatives and loved ones, so you know, calm down, Dr. Livingstone. There’s no way they’d respect your sweaty-ass long enough to even consider eating you. Anyway, I’m getting off-topic.

I usually head out with the other specimen tech, Fernanda Mikado, a local.

And by local, I mean she’s from Minau, about 200 miles away. Brazil’s pretty big, and if there’s one thing she’s really good on that I’m not, it’s the weather.

I’m pretty hopeless at figuring out what any given day’s going to be like, and just have to rely on whatever weather sign I’m currently losing faith in. It doesn’t help that the weather in the Amazon is just plain weird, with rains coming out of nowhere, months before the wind should actually be bringing in the clouds, and no one knows why. But Fernanda, she might not know why, but somehow she always knew when, to the point where if she said it might be bad I would just cancel the expedition. No further evidence needed. Not that day though. No, that day we had the world’s fussiest climate scientist breathing down our necks, Doctor Nikos Anastos.

I mean, I read his studies and he did good work, sure, but the way he acted you’d have thought that the oceans were gonna drown us all tomorrow if we didn’t get out there. And how he talked was like, I mean - Fernanda and I were no strangers to patronizing scientists explaining our jobs back to us, but Dr. Anastos was on a whole other level. He talked to us like we were five-year-olds who just asked him what recycling was. Fernanda was certain it was going to rain, but he “checked online” and apparently it said it was going to be fine. Besides, he had some real big money backing him, so we couldn’t really push the issue. In the end, we went out into the jungle, and even I could tell that the color of the sky through the canopy was bad news.

Dr. Anastos was looking to measure pollutant and plastic levels in some of the nearby rivers. The various ecological protection laws should mean that they had virtually none of either, and he was looking into something to do with pollutant transmission and chemical spread from industrial sites. If it hadn’t been for the standard NDAs they were always getting us to sign, I could have already told him the sort of results he was going to get; he wasn’t the first to come here for this kind of work, but my hands were tied. (If you’re wondering, by the way, the answer is pretty damn polluted, largely due to various illegal mining and logging operations and a land seizure in the area.)

The point is, we were barely an hour into the track when the skies opened. The rain came down thick - thick in that way that I’ve only ever found in the jungle, where there weren’t really droplets, it’s - it’s more like the air just turns to water. Visibility went down to nothing immediately, and I started to talk quickly to Fernanda about whether we could make it back, or where we might be able to shelter. The rain was bad, but we’d handled worse and we were perfectly calm. Not so much Doctor Anastos, who was clearly panicking. He shouted at us, yelling over the sounds of the rain-soaked jungle that we had to go back, before immediately charging off in the wrong direction.

(sigh) Obviously we wanted to leave him to his own stupidity and let the Amazon deal with him, but we both knew that it just wouldn’t be worth the paperwork. So we followed him, trying to slow his pace long enough to let him know that he was going the wrong way. But either he couldn’t hear us, or, more likely, he wasn’t inclined to listen.

Finally, I grabbed his arm, pulling him to a stop. He said something I couldn’t make out and pulled back, trying to throw off my grip, but clearly he hadn’t considered I’d be the stronger and when my grip held firm he unbalanced himself. He shifted his leg, trying to keep his footing, but slipped on the now muddy-ground, falling and pulling me with him. I instinctively grabbed Fernanda for support but ended up pulling her down as well, the three of us tumbling down a short and muddy decline and landing hard in the foliage.

It took a few moments to pull ourselves together. It wasn’t a huge fall, but I felt strangely disorientated as I clambered to my feet, shaking my head in an attempt to dispel some of the fuzziness that had settled over it. The others clearly felt it too, although checking ourselves over, it seemed we’d been lucky. All we had broken was our equipment, although Doctor Anastos had whined about that almost as much as if it had been a bone.

I tried to get my bearings, but even though we’d only moved a few meters laterally at most, I was finding it really hard to get a solid idea on where we were. I couldn’t figure out exactly which way we had come, and I couldn’t get a clear read on the sun through the canopy and clouds. Fernanda wasn’t having any better luck with the compasses, as they were either broken or something magnetic in the area was messing with them. They just gently spun around and around. There was at least something resembling a trail, though not one I recognized. Honestly, we should have just waited it out until we were overdue at the facility and they sent out a retrieval team, but that would take almost a full day and I could see in Doctor Anastos’ eyes that there was no way he was going to wait that long. So, we picked a direction and started walking the trail.

When I first saw the structures, my instinct was to turn around and go back. From a distance, they - they looked like shabono, the huge ring of thatch rues the Yanomami place around their settlements for shelter. It didn’t make sense though. There was no way we’d gone so wildly off course as to end up in the indigenous territory, absolutely no way. It was something else, something about their construction that seemed off, wrong somehow, so much so that when Fernanda grabbed my arm and urgently whispered that we had to leave, I shrugged her off and headed forward for a better look. That was when I noticed how quiet it was. Aside from the rain the jungle cacophony had simply stopped.

As I got closer to the shabono, it became clear what was wrong with it. Though each roof was thatched like normal, the stands weren’t made of leaves, but all kinds of different materials instead. Long strands of plastic, shards of rusted metal, even oddly shaped-hunks of cement. They wrapped through and around each other like any thatch, but the texture, the color - everything about it was different in a way that made my stomach churn, though I wasn’t exactly sure why none of the materials were organic or natural.

I shared a look with Fernanda. She didn’t say anything but she didn’t have to. We both knew how isolationist the Yanomami tended to be, how resistant they were to any outside influences. The idea that they would have the desire to build, or even the equipment to build something like this, was ridiculous. So what did that leave? Had one of the illegal mining operations done it just to antagonize them? Possible, I guess, but it would have taken a lot of work for basically no reason. It just didn’t make sense.

Dr. Anasta didn’t know enough about the Yanomami or their buildings to be unsettled, and instead voiced his irritation that we were standing around chatting rather than going for help. He walked around to one of the gaps in the shabono and headed inside. By the time either of us noticed he was already gone. Fernanda and I scrambled after him, desperately hoping that we were good enough communicators to be able to convey apologies to whoever was in there. But the inside was just like the outside, and in the worst possible way.

There were no people in there, but that’s not the same thing as it being empty. Instead there were… figures. From a distance, they looked like human beings, standing impossibly still, but getting closer quickly revealed the lie. It was just the rough shapes, cobbled together out of a hundred different pieces of garbage: a broken metal clotheshorse for a rib cage, a plastic chair leg for an arm, rusted screws for teeth. In some cases, it looked like someone had gone to a lot of effort to match anatomy with construction. I saw one with a broken water cooler where its stomach would be in. Another had a pair of oxygen tanks standing in for lungs. They were completely still, but there was something about them that made my mouth dry up and my mind scream to run. It didn’t feel like they were statues. It felt like they were choosing not to move.

Doctor Anastos didn’t seem to have the same unease with the situation as me and Fernanda, as he examined and prodded the figures with apparent delight. Maybe he thought avant-garde jungle art was just something that happened out there, I don’t know. I never got a chance to ask him, because suddenly he was cooing with delight at something he’d picked up off the ground. The ground I could now see was simply a half-inch of loose dirt over the top of a massive plastic tarpaulin. He came over to show us his discovery. It was a chunk of concrete that appeared to be the exact size and shape of a tiny pit viper, even down to the detail on its head. The doctor seemed quite taken with it, but Fernanda immediately sensed something was wrong and stepped back, pulling me with her.

What happened then was almost too quick for me to properly follow. The lifeless concrete viper spun around, opened its mouth, and bit Doctor Anastos on the wrist. He screamed, but only for a second, because after that his throat was full. He started convulsing as gray liquid concrete began to pour from his mouth, from his nose, and his eyes. His limbs went rigid and I could see his body starting to swell with it. I don’t know if it was me or Fernanda screaming. Maybe it was both of us. But I know it was her who first spotted that the detritus figures were no longer choosing to stand still.

It was the last I ever saw of Doctor Nikos Anastos. There was never any question of trying to save him. I don’t know how long we ran but it was hours before we felt even remotely safe. The jungle looked normal again, and more importantly, it sounded normal. We tried to talk about what we’d seen, but… after confirming we’d both witnessed the same thing, we realized we didn’t actually have anything to say about it. Just this white-hot fear that still hasn’t completely gone away.

In the end we crossed paths with a group of real Yanomami tribesmen. They were really friendly, and once they figured out we were lost they were very happy to return us to a part of the jungle we knew near our facility. Of course, we didn’t have a good explanation for what happened to Doctor Anastos, so we lost our jobs pretty much immediately, but you know what? That’s fine. I’m done with the jungle. There’s something in there and I don’t know which scares me more. The thought that it’s more than just the things we left behind? Or that that’s all it is, and we can’t escape the ruins of our own future.

MARTIN
Statement ends.

There’s, erm, a note here as well. Looks like Gertrude’s handwriting? Start of a letter to Dekker, thanking him for sending Judith through, although it doesn’t look like it was ever finished or sent. I assume this is another one he was trying to use to prove the Extinction? It certainly has something in it, mankind’s trash giving rise to something terrible. Then again, fear of the other. inanimate humanoid figures, that’s all very Stranger isn’t it?

(sigh) It’s never simple, is it? Sort of surprised Peter hasn’t rocked up with some more insights. Haven’t seen him around for a while, actually. I mean, (heh) it’s not like I miss him, but at least he was someone to -

(realization) Ah. Yeah, that makes sense. Right, fine. Just me on my lonesome for a while, then.

Could be worse. peaceful at least. I don’t miss all the shouting, even if it would - wait. Excuse me - excuse me, this area is off-limits to the public.

GEORGIE
Sorry?

MARTIN
You can’t be here. It’s not allowed.

GEORGIE
Oh, sorry, um, Melanie told me to wait for her here.

MARTIN
Oh, you - you’re here for Melanie?

GEORGIE
Yeah. (introducing herself) Georgie.

MARTIN
I’m sorry - sorry, I didn’t realize. I’m - I’m sure she’s around here somewhere.

GEORGIE
You must be Martin.

MARTIN
Yeah. Has Melanie been talking about me?

GEORGIE
Oh, um… Jon used to go on about you a lot.

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, wait - wait, I thought Melanie-Georgie and John-Georgie were…

GEORGIE
Same - same Georgie.

MARTIN
Oh. Ah, so you and Jon….

GEORGIE
Aren’t really talking anymore.

MARTIN
Right.

Why not?

GEORGIE
Excuse me?

MARTIN
Why aren’t you talking?

GEORGIE
Because I think he’s going to destroy himself, and anyone who lets him get too close. And I don’t want that to include me or Melanie.

MARTIN
Maybe he just needs some help.

GEORGIE
I did help him, as much as I safely could, but he just carried on anyway.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Yeah, he’ll do that.

GEORGIE
I realized if I kept trying it was gonna hurt me more than I was willing to accept.

MARTIN
Well, sometimes the helping people hurts.

GEORGIE
Sure, but that doesn’t mean everything painful helps.

Sometimes people have problems that will wreck you long before you can make a dent in them,and some people don’t want help, they just want other people suffering with them.

MARTIN
Jon doesn’t want that.

GEORGIE
He doesn’t know what he wants. And from the sound of things he’s run out of time to figure it out.

MARTIN
It’s easy to pass judgment from the outside.

GEORGIE
One more reason to stay on the outside and watch.

MARTIN
(wry laughter) And- and you think Melanie’s worth saving?

GEORGIE
It’s not about worth. But yeah, she’s actually trying to get well, so I’m gonna help her.

MARTIN
This place isn’t a sickness–

GEORGIE
No. I think it’s worse.

MARTIN
Look, we’re all just trying to do the right thing.

GEORGIE
Maybe. Look, life forces you to make hard decisions, but I can never trust someone who goes around looking for hard decisions to make.

MARTIN
And what you mean by that?

GEORGIE
Jumping on a grenade is only heroic if you weren’t the one who actually threw it.

MARTIN
That’s not what’s happening.

GEORGIE
Okay. It’s still not something I want any part of.

MARTIN
Well, lucky for you we’re fully staffed, so…

[FAINT STATIC BUZZES IN THE BACKGROUND]
MELANIE
Hey, you ready?

GEORGIE
Oh, what? Yeah, whenever you are.

MELANIE
Who were you talking to?

GEORGIE
Oh, it was, um– (pauses)

No one, apparently.

MELANIE
(sigh) Yeah, this place will do that to you. Come on.

GEORGIE
Sure.

[FAINT CLUNK, MARTIN SIGHS.]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Herman Gorgoli, regarding his period trapped alone in a suburban area of Cheadle. Original statement written 9th November, 2014.

Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Life is hard. I don’t wanna bum you out or anything but yeah. You’re all alone trying to connect with people, trying to find your place in the world, but in the end the only person you really know is yourself. And even then, not all that well. It’s plenty of things I’ve done I couldn’t explain to you. I mean, I’m constantly constantly looking back at my past self and thinking, what an idiot. How the hell could he have done such an obviously stupid thing? How was I surprised it went so badly? What a relief I’m now so much older and wiser.

Except that last part never really turns out to be true, does it? The line of when you were your dumb, younger self seems to keep moving forward with you, until each more mature and reasonable version of you eventually falls foul of it and becomes a young idiot. And when you add in another person you reach a whole other level. You can love them, marry them, dedicate your life to them, that’s not the same as actually understanding them.

I was with Alberto for 15 years, and I tell you what, I could always anticipate him. He always used to get annoyed at how predictable I found his mood sometimes, but damned if I ever really knew why. Of course, it doesn’t help that when you’re that close to someone, everything starts to reflect on each other. One bad mood feeds into another and stress just bounces back and forth between you. You can get real bad if you’re not careful, and we weren’t careful. The thing is, when we both found ourselves in positions to be working from home, we actually thought it was going to be really good for our relationship. The two of us spending all our time together, we reckoned it was going to be real romantic.

We were real stupid back then, and when Alberto’s parents offer to sell us their second home in Cheadle, we thought it was a great investment. Nice and quiet, good neighborhood, just a real nice home for the two of us, and so much bigger than anything we could afford in the city. And - before you think Cheadle, the suburb of Manchester, that’s not the one I’m talking about. I’m talking about Cheadle, the suburb of Stoke-on-Trent. Hell, technically it’s not even a suburb, it’s just a village that looks so much like a suburb that you could pull it up and drop it on the edge of any dull town in England, and it would look the same. Just street after street of identical, blandly pleasant houses, all winding around each other in dead ends and cul-de-sacs and one-way systems, making sure every house has plenty of inoffensive garden. I’ve never seen people happily living in a place so obviously dead.

Two years we lived there. Two years imprisoned in that beige, comfortable house with the man I loved, watching our relationship turn to sniping and snapping and bitter passive aggression. I’d say that cheating on him was a foolish act of past me, but honestly it’s one of the few decisions I’ve ever made that I completely understand. I didn’t even try to hide it, not really.

When he found out and it all ended, I kind of hated myself for just how relieved I was that I’d finally be able to leave that place. To get in my car and drive away from that gentle suburban nightmare. I mean, I’d lived there for two years and I still got lost trying to leave. I thought that was the worst that place would ever make me feel. I wish I’d been right.

I got a cheap apartment in Liverpool and tried to tell myself I was happier

the single life, footloose and sitting at home, binging bad TV. I tried to get back into the club scene, but honestly I think I’m just too old now. The music was too loud, the drinks were too expensive, and the sort of thing I used to take to, dancing all night now, hit me with a down so hard that I had to write off almost the entire week. It didn’t help that over the course of a 10-year relationship, my friends had become our friends, and there weren’t any of them siding with me in this situation. Some would drop platitudes about maybe reconnecting after the fallout was done with, but I know when I’m being handled by people who don’t want to create any more drama. It was miserable, but every time I thought about going back, I felt nauseous the idea of returning to those eggshell walls that we never got around to repainting, and the living room that expected me to sit there and watch Midsomer Murders until I passed away peacefully in my sleep. It made me want to throw up.

I’d probably have stayed away forever if it hadn’t been for the moose. There was a carved wooden moose you see, something Alberto’s grandfather had carved, apparently, and a real family heirloom. It was an ugly old thing, with this weird angular face that always made my skin crawl a bit. I’d never let him display it in our house, so it had lived in one of the suitcases under the stairs. The suitcases I pulled out and filled in a tearful rage when I was leaving, so… yeah, I’d kind of accidentally stolen the moose. When he finally realized and texted me, demanding it back, I should probably just have sent it by post.

But no, for some reason I decided I was going to drive all the way down there and give it back in person. Maybe I was hoping for a fight, or just to see him again, I don’t know. I was younger then. Foolish.

It was late when I got to what I thought was his street, driving through the one-way signs and well-maintained gardens that bordered that snaking road. The sun had disappeared but the sky was still fairly light. That late summer twilight that seems to just drag on forever. There weren’t any other cars on the road and I was already getting frustrated. My sat-nav had decided to start sending me around in a circle and I was apparently no closer to finding our… Alberto’s house. The roads weren’t like I remembered them, or rather - they were exactly like I remembered them. Bland, interchangeable, and impossible to navigate.

I must have driven around for almost a half hour before I finally decided that if the internet and GPS couldn’t help me, I’d have a proper look at the actual paper map that I kept in the boot. I spent a few minutes scanning the Cheadle area until I found the road I was looking for - Ash Tree Hill. Then I drove on it, I found a street sign at the next turning, hoping to compare it to what was on the map. And then I stopped, because the sign said, “Road”. No name, just Road. It wasn’t as though the actual name of the street had been defaced or removed, the sign was complete. It just didn’t say anything else.

So I drove on until I found the next one. Street. I tried to compare it to the map. Maybe this place just had some really bland road names and somehow I’d never noticed in the two years I’d lived there, but no. The places on the map will have the names I remembered. Chapel Street, Meadow Drive, Station Road. Bland, sure, generic, but not literally placeholder.

I pressed on, looking for more. Avenue. Close. Way. Lane. Only ever the suffix, never with a name attached. By this point I was starting to feel a little bit freaked out and I decided to just get out of there. I could come back later, when my sat-nav was working properly in proper daylight. The sky was getting darker by this point and I had to put my headlights on. I still hadn’t seen any other cars on the road, or as I thought more about it, people on the streets. But as you might imagine, getting out of there proved even more difficult than finding the house I was looking for. Every time I thought I’d found a main road that led out of this weird looping suburbia, a one-way sign seemed to spring up, directing me back into the sprawl. I did u-turn after u-turn as I was channeled into one dead-end cul-de-sac after another, until eventually I decided to simply disregard the one-way signs completely.

I cruised past the one that seems to be blocking my most likely exit and almost breathed a sigh of relief as I found myself leaving the suburban maze I’d been trapped in. Until it led me to an entirely different maze of unremarkable residential neighborhoods. Even then, I still didn’t accept that I was trapped. It - it didn’t make any sense, and it wasn’t like I’d seen anything blatantly supernatural, it wasn’t that there was anything abnormal about the whole situation. It was just that the normal seemed to go on forever.

At some point I got out of the car and start to hammer on random doors. I mean, I tried the doorbells at first, but they were silent, so I started knocking and knocking until my hand hurt. There was no answer at any of them. There were no lights on behind the drawn curtains, and all the house numbers were zero. I got back into my car and started driving again, going on and on until finally I ran out of petrol. It rolled to a sputtering stop at the end of one of the indistinguishable dead ends.

It had been full dark for hours by this point and my dashboard claimed it was 3:00 a.m. My phone had died about an hour ago, and once the last of the power went in the car I was left with no way to tell the time at all. I wished I hadn’t thrown away the wristwatch Alberto had given me, but it was too late for those regrets.

I stepped outside, looking down the street. There were no lights on in any of the houses, but the identical lampposts bathed the place a sickly orange as far as I could see. I decided that the roads must be the problem. They were what was keeping me trapped in this place, constantly turning and bending and confusing me. If I just picked a direction and kept to it, eventually I had to get to the edge of what by now I had decided was a newly built neighborhood that apparently no one had moved into yet. As an explanation it didn’t make any sense, but it didn’t need to, not at that moment.

So I started walking, going around houses and through gardens, trying at all times to keep my direction straight and consistent. I may be too old for clubbing, but I still keep pretty active, so getting over the fences wasn’t much of a problem for me as I passed from identical road to identical garden over and over again. I don’t know how long I went on like this but it felt like hours. At the start, I was counting how many houses I passed but when I got to a hundred I stopped. It was beginning to eat away at my careful rationalizations and I couldn’t have that.

Eventually, my legs started to go and I decided I needed some rest. I was about to sit on the street when a thought occurred. I marched up to a nearby front door, prepared to kick in the flimsy-looking wood, but trying the handle revealed it was unlocked. I don’t know why I picked that house.

It was exactly identical to all the others. I’ve often wondered if there was anything that drew me to it… perhaps I was just unlucky. Or perhaps there only ever was one house.

The lights worked, which was a relief, and the inside looked exactly how I expected it to. And I mean exactly how I expected it to. From the blank IKEA furniture to the subtly patterned cream wallpaper; to the picture frames lining the wall, containing what were clearly stock photos, each of a different family pantomiming a scene of domestic bliss. I headed into the living room and sat down on one of the almost-comfortable armchairs. My body was aching, and my eyes were heavy, and I had the thought that maybe I should head up to the bedroom. In the back of my mind though I knew that was a trap. I had somehow become convinced that if I went to sleep here, then I would never leave.

My hand drifted down and brushed the plastic remote control. Almost on instinct, I picked it up and turned the TV on. A cooking show. A woman I almost recognized fussing over a turkey. She was talking, or at least it sounded like she was, the cadence and the sounds were so much like English that it took me almost a full minute to realize that she wasn’t actually saying words.

She never looked at the camera. There seemed to be something wrong with her eyes, though I couldn’t say what. Her hands moved over the pale skin of the turkey, poking it and prodding it as though preparing it, though she wasn’t actually doing anything to it. Eventually she gripped a part of it between finger and thumb, and tore off a long strip of dry looking meat, before tossing it over her shoulder and returning to her strange mimicry of cooking.

I pressed the remote again, a shopping channel. The host was a tall, clean-shaven man with close-cropped hair. He was holding a brick and talking about it in that same flow of non-words that still had a familiar salesman’s patter. The screen scrolled the message, BUY NOW! But there was neither price nor compact details, as this man who wouldn’t look at the camera earnestly pretended to sell me a brick. It was almost hypnotic.

I leaned back in the chair trying to think clearly about what was happening

my eyes found themselves focusing on the ceiling, on a small spot of red that seemed to have seeped through from above. As I climbed those stairs I desperately tried to tell myself I didn’t know what was going to be up there.

And to be fair I was surprised by some of the details. But as soon as I saw the spot, I just knew that someone else was up there and that they were dead.

The only questions were how and who. I think I’d given up on why.

I didn’t know them, as it turned out. A young woman, conservatively dressed. Her face was bloody but I was sure I didn’t recognize her. She had a bag with her, and her ID read “Yotunde Uthman”, not a name I’d ever encountered before. Just another victim of this place. It looked as though she had forced her head through the mirror on the dressing-table. The shards cutting her face and neck to ribbons, a particularly large piece piercing her jugular, spilling blood all down the unremarkable white table and onto the light brown carpet below. I don’t think she’d been dead that long. I’m not a doctor and I didn’t really try to check.

Instead I turned and ran, all my tiredness gone in a sudden rush of adrenaline, down the stairs out the door and into the night and the rows upon rows of bland empty houses. And then all at once I wasn’t running anymore. I was lying on the ground, collapsed, the tarmac rough and cool against my cheek wet from my tears.

I was going to die. I knew that now, just as she had, just as anyone else who came here had. How many corpses lay waiting behind the placid facade of this endless false suburbia?

And that was when I heard it. It was quiet. My mind took a few moments to accept it could be real, but sure enough there it was - the sound of my phone’s ringtone. I looked up, and not three doors down was my car, the door still open where I had left it. I stumbled over my legs, still weak, and grabbed the handset which should have been long out of battery, and I stared at the glowing screen. It was Alberto. He was calling me.

I don’t know how, but the tears came even faster now as I answered, sobbing with relief to hear him yelling at me for taking so long. Had I forgotten? Was I even planning to bother? I tried to reply to explain but all I could manage to say to get through the shaking sobs was, “I love you.”

He went very quiet and then he hung up.

It didn’t matter though because when I looked around. The windows of the houses were lit and a woman was coming down from her front door to ask if I needed help with my car. We’re working on it, the two of us. We’re not exactly back together yet, but I think it’s going well. He’s reluctant to sell the house but I’ve made it quite clear that I’m never going back to the suburbs, even if I can’t really tell him why.

I checked to see if I could find anything about Yotunde Uthman, and I did find a few old social media profiles, but I wasn’t able to get through to any family or friends. As far as I can tell she disappeared a year ago and nobody noticed.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

The Lonely is possibly the most insidious of the powers, I believe. Certainly it is the one that most delights and having you do its work for it, even the spiders seem to have a hard time matching it for sheer seductiveness. (hmph) Time to yourself. Self-care. Putting yourself first. Not being a burden on those you care about it. Doesn’t even need to tell you any lies, just waits for the lies you tell yourself.

We’re all well aware that with Peter Lukas in charge of the Institute, it’s a very real danger to all of us. We are trying. Daisy, Basira and I, we don’t leave the Institute much anymore, so we do spend a lot of time together. It’s not that easy though. When everyone has so many walls, so many defenses, sometimes you can feel lonely even when you’re all in the same room. But it’s better than the alternative and at least none of us are suffering alone. Martin’s got it the worst of course, but it still seems to be his choice, and I have to trust that he knows what he’s doing.

Still feeling weak. Restless. I want to be proactive but there hasn’t- (sigh) That hasn’t been going quite so well for us lately.

Oh, uh - come in, Melanie.

[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
John, have you got a moment?

ARCHIVIST
Of course. I was just having a statement and -

MELANIE
Oh. An old one?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, an old one. I’m not - I’m doing my best.

MELANIE
Sure.

ARCHIVIST
What do you want?

MELANIE
Er, I just wanted to talk to you about… well, um… my career, I guess. My position in the archives.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

MELANIE
Look. (pause) I’m not going to do my job anymore.

ARCHIVIST
I am not sure I follow you. We can’t quit, we’ve all tried.

MELANIE
I didn’t say I was going to quit, I said I’m not going to do my job.

No researching, no filing, no field trips, nothing that is going to help the Institute in any way. I’ll still be around, I just… I can’t be a part of this anymore. If - if I get sick, I get sick, and - and if I die–

ARCHIVIST
Why?

MELANIE
Because this place is evil, John. And so doing this job - helping it out, even in small ways - is in some way evil too. Every time we try to use it to do good, it just seems to make everything worse, and - and I will not be a part of that anymore.

ARCHIVIST
What about the Unknowing? We saved the world.

MELANIE
Did we? I mean, I-I think it was the right thing to do, but how many people were killed to do it? We weren’t even a neutral party. We did it as agents of the Eye, because Elias told us to.

ARCHIVIST
And then you put him in jail.

MELANIE
Martin put him there. And he’s still doing harm. You ever think that maybe this whole ritual business is just an excuse, and that we’re all part of some huge, miserable fear machine?

ARCHIVIST
I’ve… considered the possibility.

MELANIE
Right, well. If I’m just another cog, maybe I can’t leave the machine, but from this moment I’m not turning. I’m jammed.

ARCHIVIST
Did your… therapist suggest this?

MELANIE
Not - not exactly. She’s just helped me work through some things I’ve been thinking for a while. Uh, she doesn’t know the details, just that I’m in a bad contract situation working somewhere pretty awful. She thinks I work for the Tories.

ARCHIVIST
God.

Melanie, could you - could you describe your therapist for me?

MELANIE
(laughing) What, you think I wouldn’t notice if she had cobwebs down her face?

ARCHIVIST
…no.

MELANIE
(long sigh) That’s it, isn’t it? Do you really think I’m so stupid I wouldn’t have noticed if my therapist was some kind of monster?

ARCHIVIST
I just - it was a worry.

MELANIE
Right, right. Okay. I know… that is why I ruined my first four sessions and almost torpedoed the chance at a genuinely really good therapist, because I was so paranoid that she was going to turn out to be some - some thing trying to manipulate me. But no, she’s not full of spiders, or made of wax, or wearing the therapist’s skin or whatever, she’s just a well-trained professional who I am paying to help me.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. (sigh) It’s just… the Web can be subtle, you understand?

MELANIE
And? For all you know its plan is to paralyze you with indecision. Leaving you sitting here, terrified that everything you do is somehow all part of its grand plan. And who do you think that fear is gonna feed?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well. You are not the first to make that point.

MELANIE
Look, I… didn’t come here for a fight. I just wanted to let you know what was going on. If you need me, I’ll be trying to get Daisy drunk.

ARCHIVIST
Good luck. It’s only ever happened once in 2006, she drank it – sorry. Didn’t mean to.

MELANIE
Sure. See you around.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[FAINT SOUNDS OF FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
UNKNOWN
Oh! Hello.

[SEVERAL LONG ‘HMM’S, THEN A SATISFIED ‘HM!’ FOLLOWED BY CHUCKLING.]
MARTIN
Um, excuse me sir, sorry - you can’t actually be here.

UNKNOWN
Oh, not to worry! I seem to be doing alright so far.

MARTIN
No, I mean - this area is actually off limits to the public, so -

UNKNOWN
And quite right to! Goodness, the things they could learn here turn your hair white, eh? (chuckles) Best to keep them out, I say.

[THE UNKNOWN MAN CONTINUES EXAMINING, HUMMING TO HIMSELF.]
MARTIN
…who are you? did Peter send you?

UNKNOWN
You must be Martin. Goodness, he was not exaggerating.

MARTIN
What’s that supposed to mean?

UNKNOWN
Oh come now, don’t be like that. Let’s start over.

Simon. Simon Fairchild. Peter asked me to look in on you and have a small chat. Well, a big chat, really. Answer all those nagging questions.

MARTIN
Simon Fairchild? Wait, Simon Fairchild as in-

SIMON
As in, all those people who said I did horrible things to them and their loved ones? Yes. They have been in, haven’t they? I’d hate to think I’m underrepresented in here, not when Peter tells me that that bone fellow has at least half a dozen -

MARTIN
No, no, not at all. you’ve sent plenty of people our way.

SIMON
Brilliant! So shall we get started?

S-sorry, I’m still not entirely clear what’s going on. What are you doing here?

SIMON
I see. I suppose it was a bit much to expect him to have filled you in on everything already. I mean, in many ways, that’s the point.

MARTIN
Right.

SIMON
So you’ve been working with Peter for a while now, correct?

MARTIN
Sure.

SIMON
And he’s been promising you answers to all those difficult questions?

MARTIN
I mean, sort of.

SIMON
Well, that’s me.

MARTIN
What?

SIMON
Yes, well you have to understand how it is with Peter. He finds talking to people directly very difficult, especially explaining the more, um - esoteric side of things? Charming chap, I’m sure you agree, absolutely lovely, but even if you can convince him to actually give you a straight answer, he’s just not that good at actually putting these things into words. Something to do with his upbringing, I think. (conspiratorial whisper) I’m pretty sure he was home-schooled, you know.

MARTIN
So what, he sends you to answer questions because he doesn’t want to?

SIMON
Precisely!

MARTIN
And you do it? Why?

SIMON
Is that your first question?

MARTIN
Is there a limit?

SIMON
Only until I get bored, and that does tend to come more quickly these days.

MARTIN
O…okay, okay then, sure, sure. First question then. Why are you helping Peter? Don’t you serve different, you know, fears?

SIMON
Well, now see… that’s actually two questions. The answer to the first is simple. I lost a bet, and this is how the good captain chooses to use that. The second is… sort of? I mean yes, if you want to get technical, he serves the One Alone and I serve the Falling Titan, but those two are a lot closer than you might imagine. After all, the larger the space you find yourself alone in, the more isolated you feel.

MARTIN
And being aware of how lonely you are can make anywhere feel more empty.

SIMON
Exactly. I’ve actually been toying with the idea of trying to do something with the scale of humanity itself, you know, emphasize all that overpopulation nonsense. But honestly it just doesn’t ring true for me. We’re all just so tiny and pointless, you see, it’s hard to really get past it. Also, I worry it might be straying into territory that emboldens our potential new rival.

MARTIN
The Extinction.

SIMON
The very same. Peter said you’d have a lot of questions about that one.

MARTIN
I do. How are new powers born?

SIMON
Hmm… don’t know.

MARTIN
How soon could it attempt this ritual?

SIMON
(cheerily) No clue.

MARTIN
How do we stop it?

SIMON
Can’t help you.

MARTIN
(teeth gritted) Could you at least try?

SIMON
No, no, no, you’re right, of course. The thing you have to remember is that no one actually knows how these things work, not really. There’s always been plenty of theories of course, and over a century or two you do start to get an intuitive feel for it, but… there’s really no hard and fast rules,

The powers, or entities, or fears, or whatever you want to call them, are bound up in emotion. In feeling. How they exist, what they can do, how they interact with the world, it all makes about as much logical sense as a nightmare; which is to say there is a certain sort of emotional logic to it all. Things feel like they flow together in a way that makes sense, but if you try to stop and do the maths then it all comes apart, at least in my experience.

When is a new power born? Well, when does it feel like its birth would be right? When enough creatures suffer a terror of it that feels distinct, that feels truly its own? Then it would probably feel right for it to emerge into its own. Or perhaps there’s a ritual. If it feels right to enact some sort of birthing ceremony, some apocalyptic –

MARTIN
(interrupting) And how close is it, do you think?

SIMON
Hard to be sure. Peter thinks very close indeed, what with all the current hubbub, I’m inclined to agree.

MARTIN
You don’t sound worried.

SIMON
That’s because we disagree on exactly how bad it will be. Peter seems convinced that the Extinction is different, that its actual birth will be as bad or worse as another power fully manifesting. He believes its advent will be heralded by all sorts of disasters and catastrophes and global upheavals, and whatnot. That kind of thing.

MARTIN
Sounds like a rich feeding ground.

SIMON
Well, exactly. Peter, however, seems to think that it will upset the balance that we all have an awful lot invested in, and he’s not at all certain the world as we understand will come out the other side.

MARTIN
And let me guess. You think he can’t see the big picture.

SIMON
I see why he likes you. It’s all a matter of perspective, you see. My patron has gifted me with, quite frankly, an absurdly long life. An appropriate gift and one that serves to provide a certain distance from things. Of course, a paltry few centuries is nothing really, but it’s more than most get. And even in that brief time, I’ve seen all sorts of ebbs and flows to the balance of things. Do you know when the last ritual I attempted was?

MARTIN
I - I don’t know, that space station?

SIMON
Oh goodness no, that’s the future, my boy! No. It was 1853, the height of the aquarium mania. All over the empire, people were starting to understand the depths of the terrible unknown below the ocean, and I thought that was a rich vein to be tapped. Even bothered old Harley into helping me design a special diving bell for the ritual. I called it the Awful Deep, and between you and me I was rather proud of myself.

MARTIN
So why didn’t it work?

SIMON
Because it wasn’t a very good idea. The fear wasn’t out there, not like I hoped it was. All sort of fizzled. Also, a Hunter broke in and destroyed the mechanism, sent me and all my sacrifices plummeting to the bottom of the ocean.

MARTIN
I don’t see your point.

SIMON
My point is…

…you know, I’ve quite forgotten.

[MARTIN SIGHS IN FRUSTRATION]
SIMON
Hey, I’ve just not been doing much recently, it’s not a good time for perspective you see. The world all feels too small these days. I used to do a lot for the religion but it’s just not got the same conceptual scope that used to. honestly I’m pinning most of my long-term hopes on space, but that’s at least a hundred years away.

MARTIN
Assuming the Extinction doesn’t derail everything.

SIMON
Which is why I’m happy helping Peter. But if it does, then I’ll either be dead, which will be fine, or I’ll adjust.

MARTIN
It doesn’t scare you?

SIMON
Martin. Taken on a cosmic scale we’ve never even been alive, not in any way that might register. I mean, if this dreadful little planet had a fractionally different orbit and life had never even started here, then ultimately nothing of any real importance would have changed.

MARTIN
I think our experience of the universe has value. Even if it disappears forever.

SIMON
What a lonely way to look at things. Which makes sense I suppose.

MARTIN
So what do you do then, if - if the world is pointless and your God is so weak right now?

SIMON
I have a good time, and do my best to avoid the drama. It’s all been getting a bit much over the last few decades, I blame the number of people. from our own numbers point of view it’s getting very busy. more Minds equals more fear after all.

MARTIN
I thought you said that the maths doesn’t work.

SIMON
Oh, you are a quick one! So maybe I’m wrong. But crucially I suspect a lot of the other servants and creatures out there have a similar idea. probably while they’re all in such a rush to make their own attempts.

MARTIN
You make it sound like the entities don’t even know what they’re doing.

SIMON
I have no idea if they’re doing anything at all. if they’re even capable of ‘doing’ things. I know that most of their servants are simply doing their best to interpret and serve something that is almost definitively inconceivable.

MARTIN
You can’t be serious.

SIMON
All right. Let’s try one of those analogies Peter finds so annoying. Erm… imagine you are deaf, but every night you hear the most beautiful music in your dreams, and your every waking thought is consumed by trying to reproduce that music. (Oh, you’re mute as well in this analogy, or at least you can’t sing.) And you need to invent the idea of a musical instrument from scratch. Everyone else is also deaf and mute, and –

MARTIN
Yes, I think I get it.

SIMON
Yes, well the point is, most of us are trying so desperately to recreate our own dream symphony that we bring an awful lot of our own baggage into the mix.

MARTIN
What about the monsters?

SIMON
What monsters?

MARTIN
Things like M– erm, uh, the Distortion. I thought they were part of the entities themselves, extensions. Surely they know what’s going on.

SIMON
Honestly, I think they have it a lot worse than we do. Imagine being a hand that can conceive of itself, having impulses shot through you, being moved and clinched by some unseen mind, but never knowing the reasoning behind your own actions, or even if you’re just some thoughtless reflex. (noise of disgust) Sounds horrid.

MARTIN
(agitated) So if no one’s ever actually communicated with their patron, how do you know they even want rituals? How - how does anyone know if they could ever even work?

SIMON
We don’t!

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
SIMON
And honestly? The idea that this is all some grand cosmic joke, thousands of us running around spreading horror and sabotaging each other pointlessly while these impossible unknowable things just lurk out there, feeding off the misery we caused? I find that interpretation quite appealing. But, I still hear the music in my dreams.

[MARTIN MAKES A SOUND OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT. SEVERAL MOMENTS OF SILENCE PASS.]
MARTIN
Who are you? No, no - who were you?

SIMON
Originally? No one you would have heard of. No great historical figure or atrocity monger. I’ve been Simon Fairchild about, erm, 80 or 90 years maybe. For business purposes mainly, by which I mean I was bored at not being wealthy, so I made some arrangements and sent Mr. Fairchild on a very long fall. I could go into details but without a certain amount of knowledge of 1930s tax practices it wouldn’t mean very much to you.

MARTIN
And how did you get started with it all? Did you – did - did you just look up at the sky one day and fall head-over-heels in love?

SIMON
Sort of, actually. Except it wasn’t the actual sky, it was a painting. I was apprenticed, you see, under (???). Dreadful man, but a decent artist. He was fascinated, you see, with the human figure. He found most of the rest of the work dreadfully dull so he’d always delegated the lot of it to us.

He had a particular distaste for painting the sky, and I was always the one he called on to do them. Days, weeks I would spend, focusing so intently on these patches of clear sky or swirling cloud at the top of his latest self-proclaimed masterpiece, and gradually it sort of, erm, drew me in until it seemed to dwarf the rest of the work. Every stroke of the brush felt larger than my entire existence. And when I finally lost my footing, well…. I should have of course fallen to the floor of the church, broken my neck, but that blue painted sky welcomed me with open arms and I never looked back.

I tried to share it with others, not just as sacrifices, but they often find it difficult to keep up with the, um, velocity I tend to live at. They tend to get left behind, and I suppose it doesn’t help that I can’t bring myself to see any of them as anything other than trivial.

MARTIN
Mm.

SIMON
No wonder I’m so sympathetic to the Lonely! You know, this really is a place for self-discovery, isn’t it? (chuckles) Statement ends I suppose.

MARTIN
Er, I’m sorry?

SIMON
Oh nothing, just my own hubris. I should have known. When I came here, I said to myself, “Simon,” I said, “you’re going to answer this young man’s questions, but you’re not going to give the Watcher a statement. You’re better than that.” But it’s a hard one to resist, isn’t it? You get in the flow of talking about yourself and it all just… tumbles out.

MARTIN
Does seem like it.

SIMON
(laughs) Well, this has been fun. Now, if we’re about done–

MARTIN
We’re not. Sit back down.

SIMON
Bold! (chuckles) I like it.

MARTIN
You said you were here to answer my questions for Peter, but so far you’ve told me basically nothing of any use.

SIMON
The big answers are rarely helpful.

MARTIN
Then let’s try some smaller ones. Is Peter attempting a ritual?

SIMON
Not in the sense that you’re used to. Him and his family made their play a few years ago and they failed. I’m sure he’d like me to explain it but I think he can do that one himself.

MARTIN
How honest has he been with me?

SIMON
About which part?

MARTIN
Protecting the others.

SIMON
I think he tried. I suspect he may have slightly exaggerated his abilities when you first made the deal, but he certainly expended a reasonable amount of influence and resources to follow through.

MARTIN
But that was never the endgame was it? He just wanted me on side long enough to rope me into his - his plans for the Extinction.

SIMON
Do you really need me to answer that one?

MARTIN
Fine. So why me? What’s his plan? Why not get the others involved?

SIMON
He is what he is, Martin. For a creature of the Lonely, the urge is always to isolate, never to communicate or connect. I suspect that’s why he’s so keen on wagers, it allows him a framework for cooperation that doesn’t risk any sort of intimacy.

As for his plan… I don’t know the details. But I believe there’s something in the Institute that he thinks can help his cause.

MARTIN
And he needs me to use it?

SIMON
Presumably, from what he said it must be powerfully aligned to the Watcher. If he wishes to use it, it would need someone already touched by the Eye. And if he wants to control that someone…

MARTIN
They need to serve the Lonely.

SIMON
Quite right. Anything else?

MARTIN
How do you feel about this?

SIMON
You might need to be a tad more specific.

MARTIN
All of it. Peter’s plan, the extinction, me.

SIMON
I think…(inhale) I think Peter is taking a rather large but calculated gamble. Not just on you, but on a lot of things. If it works, he’ll be in a very strong position. And if he fails it won’t be all that bad.

MARTIN
You don’t think it’ll be the end of the world?

SIMON
Oh, it very well might be, but life has continued through dozens of apocalypse is already. Ice ages, pandemics, calamities, extinctions. The only reason this one feels special is because, well, it’s happening to you. And that’s the sort of solipsism that tends to come with loneliness, in my experience. So my feeling is that I’ll help out where I can, but ultimately if this Armageddon comes off, then so be it. Either billions suffer and life goes on, or billions suffer and life doesn’t. In the grand scheme of things it’s all much of a muchness.

MARTIN
Right.

SIMON
Sorry. Too big picture? I get that a lot.

MARTIN
No, it’s… thank you. This has actually been quite helpful.

SIMON
I’d say any time, but honestly, if you see me again I may just throw you off something for a joke. How do you feel about roller coasters?

MARTIN
Um… neutral.

SIMON
(disappointed) Oh. You’re no fun.

[FOOTSTEPS WALK AWAY]
BASIRA
Who was that?

MARTIN
Basira, please, I don’t have time.

BASIRA
(interrupting) I know you don’t.

MARTIN
(warning) Basira, let go.

BASIRA
I don’t think so. Three weeks I’ve been waiting to catch sight of you, and now I find you chatting with Simon Fairchild. No, you’re not pulling your little vanishing act on me.

MARTIN
How did you know about–

BASIRA
Yeah, Jon’s not the only one who listens to statements.

MARTIN
It’s none of your business.

BASIRA
No? because it seems to me like you’re panning around are two very dangerous people right around the time you’re cutting all of us out. That makes me worried. It makes me suspicious. Tell me I’m wrong.

MARTIN
You’re wrong.

BASIRA
So what’s going on then? Talk to me.

MARTIN
It’s. Complicated.

BASIRA
What, they’re just here out of the goodness of their hearts helping you save the world from Extinction?

MARTIN
You know about that?

BASIRA
Yeah, Jon found the tapes you made for him –

MARTIN
(frantically) Shh, shh!

BASIRA
Found a stash of them awhile ago. I made sure he shared with the club.

MARTIN
(frustrated) Well, there you go then.

BASIRA
John may be going through the whole “we have to trust Martin” thing, but I’m not. As far as I can see you’re either compromised or you’re being played, and I want to know which.

MARTIN
I didn’t know Jon had listened to them already.

BASIRA
Well, he has. He seems to think you’ll come to him when you need him. I think you’re feeding him what he needs to hear so he doesn’t bother you.

MARTIN
Look, I don’t have time for this. I don’t like that I have to work with Peter any more than you do, and I didn’t know that Simon was involved until today. But I would hope that you and Jon understood the importance of preventing an apocalypse.

BASIRA
I guess I’m just a bit burned out on the end of the world.

MARTIN
Yeah, well, that’s your problem.

BASIRA
And if you really think this whole Extinction thing is it, why not come to us for help?

MARTIN
I can’t. Peter’s the one with the plan, and… it needs me to be alone.

BASIRA
And you don’t see anything suspicious about that?

MARTIN
‘course I do, but it might be the only way and… so far at least he’s been honest with me. Awful, but honest.

I need to do this. For everyone.

[LONG PAUSE]
BASIRA
You’re not expecting to come out of this, are you?

MARTIN
I’ll do what I have to. If I’m right, no one else needs to get hurt.

BASIRA
(sigh) Okay. You want to do whatever grand sacrifice you think is going to save everyone, go ahead. But you’d best be sure you’re not just playing their game.

MARTIN
I know what I’m doing.

BASIRA
We’ll see. Don’t make me regret this.

MARTIN
Yeah.

Don’t tell Jon. Please.

BASIRA
Fine. I can’t promise you he won’t just Know it, though.

MARTIN
How is he?

BASIRA
Hungry. But he’s keeping it together.

MARTIN
(exhales) that’s good. Can I go now?

BASIRA
Sure.

[A LONG SIGH, THEN THE RECORDER CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Hezekiah Wakely, regarding his career as a gravedigger. Compiled from a series of letters to Nathaniel Beale between 1837 and 1839. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
August 1837

I’ll thank you again for your endeavors on my behalf, Nathaniel, I’m sure you can always rely on having a true friend in me. I’ve been installed here some weeks now, and I’m finding myself well contented, my sexton duties keeping my time employed such as I scarce have a chance to allow myself those dark thoughts that so concerned you when last we visited.

It’s a fine little church and the Reverend is a good sort, though I’ll confess to finding his gospel readings tending towards the dull of a Sunday service. Not his fault, of course. The Lord gave him that voice for a purpose no doubt, but sometimes that purpose does feel like it might be providing me a few minutes of unearned slumber. Still, his conduct towards me has never been less than compassion itself. Why, he told me not yesterday that he’d never seen the church shine like it had since I’ve taken over its maintenance.

Shine? I said so, that’s a rare compliment when it comes to cleaning sandstone, and he laughed heartily though the joke was of no great consequence. So you may rest easy knowing I am happy enough.

My troubled sleep, on the other hand, is not of yet resolved itself in any way to my satisfaction. I worked myself to exhaustion, cleaning, polishing and looking after the church proper, and I tell you, when I lie abed I can scarce rise again for the weakness I leave myself in. And yet sleep still eludes me, and when it does not, I wake as though my heart were trying to leap from my chest and my throat were full of dust and ashes.

You need not despair, Nathaniel, I know the bottle will no longer help, and my other labors keep the nights from bothering me as once they did, but I do find myself longing for a true and proper sleep. (pause) I tell a lie. There are some nights I find myself easily slipping to dreamless respite, though you’ll think me a morbid soul for it. Those days I spent digging graves in the churchyard - on those nights I sleep, if you’ll forgive the joke, the sleep of the dead.

I’ve never quite known a rest like it. Perhaps it is the harder, more physical aspect of the task, or perhaps the quiet rhythm of it. There’s no echo as there is in the church, just the sound of pick and shovel hitting dirt. And when it’s deep enough, when you stand at the bottom, the noise of the world just fades away to nothing. It is the sort of quiet that makes you feel as though the commotion and hubbub of life were but a terrible dream, and in sleeping you were waking up to peace. (laughs) You’ll laugh, Nathaniel, but I almost wrote that I hope I have a chance to dig more graves. What a thought. No, I’d not wish that, for to dig graves one must have something to fill them, and the good Lord takes that at His own pace.

You may satisfy yourself, I am content with the position you have found for me and spare no concern for my well-being or the receipt of your charity.

Your humble servant,

Hezekiah Wakely

February 1838

Nathaniel, something has happened to me. And I felt it only right to send a letter and let you know of it, being as your last letter expressed such a kind curiosity towards my sleeplessness, and what I mentioned to you in my earlier letters.

My nights have indeed been easier of late, something I may partially ascribe to the recent outbreak of fever in the town taking more of my time for the grim business of grave digging, and the rest to my gradual settling into my position as sexton. There is such peace in the churchyard, you see, to walk atop the soil knowing that, deep below my feet, those blessed souls wait happy and silent in the cool, damp earth. Counting the days until the resurrection. It gives me such warmth to think of that I have taken to spending much of my own occupy time wandering the graves, and, where the mood allows me, taking my sleep there.

I hope such talk does not upset you and you may rest assured I’m no suicide. It is simply the serenity of the dead I envy, not their lifelessness. I seek no escape from the hardships of life for, since you gave me this position, I can call little of my life any true hardship and I am as free of suffering as I have ever been. But I do long for that rest. I tell myself I wake each day anew, but I never am truly satisfied as when I’m in my slumber and insensible to the world. Perhaps that’s what I hoped to find in my drinking, that gentle oblivion, but it seems like a world ago. I know what it truly is now, walking the churchyard, though you may rest assured I shall wait my turn like a dutiful servant until our Lord sees fit to call me.

I do find, however, that when I dig my graves, I have been going deeper. And at times, I worried I might dig so far as I can no longer get out with my meager ladder. Now, those moments… you must not cast judgment on me for this Nathaniel, for it is simply a passing fancy, but I will often lie myself down on that soft earth and I will sleep. And I swear to you that the sleep I find there is more blissful than any I’ve ever found. It was there, not a week ago, that it happened. I was digging a grave for the squire’s father; a cruel and venal man who I rather doubt has easy found himself in the kingdom of Heaven, but a pure soul is not what buys you a well-appointed cemetery plot, and he had plenty of money to do exactly that. I saw his body, you know, as it was being prepared, and I tell you truly that for all the wickedness that man had done, his body knew gentle repose. Though not as gentle perhaps as it might be with six feet of earth atop it.

So that was my task, and sure enough, I went about it with my usual fervent duty, such that the work of the day was done by the time the sun were at its height. It was cold that day, and bitter windy, and cracking the ground had been as hard as ice. At least until a few feet down. But by the end of it… oh, I tell you there was warmth in that grave. Whether by my own body or the heat of the soil I couldn’t say, but it was as comfortable as the fireplace of a public house, and the wind could not reach me in the hole that I had made. So, as is my late habit, I lay down, and I had no sooner done this than a powerful sleep overtook me.

I had a dream then. I dreamt a rain had come. A terrible bitter rain that chilled my bones and turned the soil around me darken and sodden. The walls grew damp and slippery, their firm shape lost as they began to slip and crumble. And then all at once they collapsed, the grave filling in a moment with a wave of mud and wet dirt. A single terrible moment of utter terror, it was atop and around me, covering my face and filling my lungs with its awful choking sod. And the strangest thing was that it was wonderful. I had never felt such safety as within the crushing weight of earth all around me, the pressing embrace of the Buried. In that instant, I knew what it was to be dead and I ached with envy for them.

When I awoke I was above ground again, amid the graves. The rain had been no dream and I was cold and soaked through, wracked with a chill you may well discern from the quality of my hand. It was true also that the rain had caused the grave to collapse, though I must have left it shortly before that happened. I was in no state to address the issue, however, and in fact the Reverend had to ask the sexton from St. Mark’s to do so, as I am still laid up in bed with this cough.

(chuckle) Perhaps I shall be joining the churchyard sooner than I dared hope.

Write me back soon, for I have precious little to do in this invalid’s bed, and sleep is far from me once again.

Your humble servant,

Hezekiah

June 1838

I must first thank you for your visit, Nathaniel, although my recovery were well completed, it is always most heartening to see an old friend. I hope that the business that drew your way so abruptly were well completed, and that I may anticipate your company again after not too long.

I must tell you I’ve been in some distress these last few weeks, due you in no small part of the agitation of the Reverend, who has of late succumbed to a very specific though understandable mania. The circumstances and causes are easy enough to explain. It was the funeral of young Nellie Cooper that did it, which was a most upsetting affair. I’ll say I have much sympathy with his plight, as I had a chance to view the body myself, and if you’d asked me if I concurred with Doctor Grant’s judgments of death by drowning - I would have agreed without hesitation. She had that peace to her that I’ve spoken of to you before, and I knew how happy she must be to soon be returning to the earth.

But that day, as they carried the slim coffin down towards the hole that I had dug, and so recently enjoyed my own calm repose, there was a commotion among the pallbearers. Little Nellie’s coffin began shaking and rocking back and forth, such as they were unable to keep their footing and dropped it. The crash of the wooden casket hitting the earth is a sound I’ll not forget in a hurry, nor the shriek that came from inside the splintered wood as it burst open.

As you may well have surmised Nellie was not, after all, dead, and had shaken off the stupor mere minutes before she was due to be placed below ground. She’s unharmed, at least in body, though I can scarce imagine the maddening strain must have put on her to see her own tombstone carved and waiting above the dark silence of our open grave.

To be honest I suspect the worst effect is upon the Reverend. To be so near-responsible for burying a personal life has shaken him deep, and he stopped all funeral services for a time. To my mind there are far worse fates, but he has in his head an idea to begin fitting the graves I dig with these new safety bells that he has heard of, so that anyone who might be alive below ground might signal us above for rescue. I dread the idea. If it had been me in that coffin, destined for the peace below ground, I can think of little that I would hate more than the jarring, clanging of a bell pulling me from my rest.

My dreams have been strange of late.

Yours,

Hezekiah

December 1838

I’ve been thinking, Nathaniel, of funerals and bodies. Souls that escape leaving this common clay to become one again with a truer clay. Were we not created from mud? And it seems more fitting to me that we should return forever to that mud, not pulled from it by some would-be Redeemer or lifted to sing hosannas in his holy court.

I’ve worked so long, so hard. Do I not deserve a rest in the mud from which I came? Commit my body to the earth and let it stay there. I’d do the same for you. For worship of the Most High, though it may be earned perhaps by He that made the heavens and the earth. Well to my mind, all that prayer still sounds a lot like work.

Do you know what the Reverend said in his sermon the other day? He said that in the kingdom to come there will be no need of sleep, that we shall never need to miss a moment of that bliss. But sleeping in the cool, soft dirt is all the bliss I could ever ask for. I suppose the Lord would have no call to think such things a blessing. He was never Buried, was he? Not truly. Laying in a cave for three days, a rock pushed across the entrance before being taken up bodily - no, he was never buried.

And he always had more work to do, harrowing hell and redeeming the sins of mankind. No, he had no rest and never asked for it, save a moment of doubt of Yosemite. But he is the son of God and we are merely sons of the dirt. We are not as strong as he is, and we deserve rest. We deserve to sleep.

I’ve been trying to sleep, but that bell kept ringing, the one over Jacob the baker’s grave. That nonsense safety valve the Reverend insisted on putting there, ringing and ringing, and disturbing the sleep of everyone in the churchyard. I’ve no doubt it disturbed Jacob as well, who worked so hard all his life and never thought to complain of his lot. He deserved to rest so I cut the cord, and now he is quiet.

I can’t get my clothes clean anymore. And my shovel is never far from my hand.

Yours,

Hezekiah

January 1839

I am disappointed, Nathaniel, I’ll not deny it. More than that I am hurt. My letters to you have always been a comfort to my soul, a place where I may lay my heart bare and tell the truth of what I think and feel without fear of judgment or reproach. That you chose to share what last I wrote you with the magistrates has wounded me sore. They came and asked their questions as I’m sure you hoped they would, but could of course prove nothing. Jacob is long dead, and I was very careful how I stopped the bell. But such suspicions eat away at peace and of course the Reverend dismissed me.

I’ve lost my churchyard, Nathaniel, and I wonder if I shall ever sleep again. It was my own fault of course. I should never have told you these things, assuming you would understand. But how could you? You’ve never felt the closest embrace of peaceful soil. You’ve never truly slept in the bosom of the earth. These things are not such as can be shared in words, and it was my foolishness to think that they could.

But worry not, Nathaniel. The love I bear you will not let me leave you ignorant. As I did with the Reverend, I will come and I will show you once and forever the true and glorious peace of the Buried.

Your most humble servant,

Hezekiah Wakeley

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Nathaniel Beale is buried on the grounds of St. Peter’s Church in his hometown of Dunstable. And I am only the third person to know that in almost 200 years, after Nathaniel Beale himself, and Mr. Wakeley, the person who buried him.

I cannot tell how much of the change that comes over someone when they are taken by one of the Fears is a direct product of their influence, and how much is their own mind desperately contorting itself to accept and justify the awful things they find themselves drawn to doing. I have read many statements now by those who are changing, who are becoming something else, and few if any of them seem… entirely rational, entirely the people that they were before.

How can I tell, I suppose? My job is to view people at their lowest, their most fearful and unstable moments. Perhaps there is less change there than I imagined. Certainly I don’t feel different. I have no desire for pseudo-religious philosophizing, or delighting in the suffering of those I harm. Then again, I suppose I’m hardly in the best position to judge.

Perhaps to anyone listening to these tapes I sound remarkably similar to Hezekiah, or to Manuela. Or to Jane.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[THERE IS A GENTLE DRIPPING SOUND. A DOOR OPENS.]
HELEN
Hello, John. Been a while since you’ve been down here.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t come here to see you.

HELEN
Oh come now, I’m sure I’m more interesting company than the late Jane Prentiss.

ARCHIVIST
It’s all that’s left of her now apart from a jar of ashes in my desk. Just a circle of rottenstone on an otherwise unremarkable wall.

HELEN
More the legacy than some people get.

ARCHIVIST
There was going to be a gate I think. A hole that she rotted into the Corruption itself. Maybe the start of a ritual.

HELEN
Hmm. Not exactly impressive is it?

ARCHIVIST
Less complex, certainly. But I think that’s the thing about, what did Elias call it, Filth. I don’t think it really plans much. It just starts to grow wherever it can get a foothold, and if no one stamps it out in time, game over.

HELEN
How clumsy. Though I suppose it has a certain charm.

ARCHIVIST
I’ve been wondering what they were doing down here. The worms must have been down here for weeks, months maybe. Spreading, growing. They could have spread all the way through these tunnels but they didn’t. They didn’t find Leitner down here, didn’t find Getrude’s body, didn’t find… whatever else is here.

HELEN
It is a maze. One of the reasons I like it.

ARCHIVIST
Mm-hmm.

I can’t see things properly here. I thought it was just me, something interfering with my connection to the eye but I’m wondering… maybe it affects everything else. Like this place is some kind of universal blind spot. Everyone gets lost down here.

HELEN
What a fascinating idea. Although some of us are always lost in a sense.

ARCHIVIST
Wait, are you saying you can navigate it?

HELEN
Not exactly. but my door has been part of these tunnels for some time now.

Wh - then what’s it hiding? what’s in the middle?

HELEN
A delightful surprise.

[SHE CHUCKLES, HER VOICE REVERBERATING AS JON SIGHS.]
Ah… But that’s not why you’re here, is it?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. I’ve been thinking a lot about Jane. She was the first, you know. The first I actually encountered like… like us. She seemed so inhuman. Like everything she used to be was stripped away.

HELEN
And now?

ARCHIVIST
I wonder how much of her was still in there. How much did she choose to be what she was? I read her statement, she was… she was scared. I assumed she’d been possessed completely against her will, but now I’m not even sure that’s possible.

HELEN
It is astounding the sort of thing you’re willing to choose given an unpleasant enough alternative, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
How much of our willpower is just safety? Comfort by another name. The option to choose and be fine?

HELEN
Hungry, are we?

ARCHIVIST
[angrily] Oh, that’s not – I haven’t done anything –

HELEN
Yet.

ARCHIVIST
I feel like if I don’t… I might die. Fade away into nothing.

HELEN
Do you know that?

ARCHIVIST
No. But I can’t die. They need me.

HELEN
Come on, Jon, no excuses. They didn’t need your protection.

ARCHIVIST
What, are you going to look after them?

HELEN
And how would I do that?

ARCHIVIST
You eat things as well.

HELEN
They have to open the door, Archivist. I can’t just push them in.

ARCHIVIST
Oh you’ve got hands.

HELEN
Sharp enough to pull out worms, kill a few old men, maybe stab an overeager Archivist. But my physicality is as much an illusion as everything else about me. Think of me as a bear trap, not a sword.

But we’re not talking about me, are we?

ARCHIVIST
When does it stop?

HELEN
What?

ARCHIVIST
The guilt. Misery. all the others I’ve met, they’ve been cold, cruel. they’ve enjoyed what they do.

When does the Eye make me monstrous?

[HELEN LAUGHS ONCE, THEN TWICE. THRICE.]
HELEN
What - why would it ever do that?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t..

When has your guilt, or your sadness, or your hand-wringing ever actually stopped you from doing what it wants?

ARCHIVIST
[stammering] I have not been taking statements.

You’ve sworn of other people’s trauma for now, because you’re caught. Because continuing would endanger you. But other than that, when has your discomfort ever actually stopped you walking the path of the Beholding?

ARCHIVIST
I… I don’t know.

HELEN
Even if it were capable of doing so, what possible reason would the Eye have to change how you feel, when it makes no difference to your actions?

Helen was like you at first. She felt such guilt overtaking people, until one day she realized she wasn’t going to stop doing it. So she chose to stop feeling guilty.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. I get it. My feelings mean nothing to it.

HELEN
Not true. They carry a certain flavor, a seasoning.

ARCHIVIST
I see. (chuckling) I am enjoying our time together. Well, you know my plight already.

Cheerio, Jon. Enjoy your brooding.

[DOOR SWINGS SHUT, JON SIGHS.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Barbara Mullen-Jones, regarding her nine months spent with the Divine Chain cult. Original statement given on 2nd April, 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
Everyone thinks they’re too smart to get involved in a cult. I’m sure you do.

You think that, of the first mention of aliens, or the end of the world, or the lost book of the Bible where Jesus buried his holy staff in the foothills of the Himalayas, you’d go running.

Trouble is, that misunderstands how it works. I mean, when I was with the Divine Chain, some of the smartest people there were also the most committed. Intelligence doesn’t make you less prone to taking on bad ideas, it just makes you better at defending them to other people and to yourself. Smart people can believe some truly ridiculous things, and then deploy all the reason and logic at their disposal to justify them, because a belief doesn’t begin in your mind. It begins in your feelings. Cults are very good at finding you when you’re at your lowest point, when you’re your most emotionally vulnerable. And when you’re at that point it’s astounding what can crawl into your heart and start to fester there.

I hit my lowest point when I turned 41. That’s when my life came crashing down, at least on the inside. From the outside I’m sure everything looked pretty much okay. I was getting gigs, I had a job, I had plenty of friends and a supportive family. But that was when I started to properly look at my life, and I really didn’t like what was looking back. I was a stand-up comedian you see, and a really good one. That’s not boasting, that’s just the truth. And I’d always assumed that that was enough to eventually have real success, and for the first 10 years it seemed like I was right. I worked my way up, performed for basically nothing basically every night and got to be pretty successful.

And then I stayed that way for the next 10 years. Trouble is - do you know how much a “pretty successful” comedian makes? Let’s just say I had a full-time office job and was still barely making rent. But between working full-time and gigging full-time I just kept putting off everything else in my life, always so sure the big time was just around the corner. This is the TV spot that gets me noticed, this is the sell-out fringe show that makes me mainstream, this is the deal that actually goes somewhere.

I made it through turning 40 with my self-image intact, but for some reason at 41, I just cracked. I realized I’ve spent most of my life with nothing to show for it, but a few awards no one cares about, a string of awful comedian exes who broke up with me for being funnier than them, and a dreadful office job I was going to be working until I died because I’d never bothered to build a stable career. I was never going to own a home, I was never going to have kids, never going to have the life I’d spent my entire youth sacrificing for. And yes, I know that 41 isn’t actually too late for most of that, but try telling that to someone who’d just decided they’ve wasted their life. I felt like I couldn’t talk to anyone about it. My friends were all comedians who really didn’t want to hear it, my family were blandly supportive to the point of uselessness. Oh, they had plenty of soothing platitudes, but platitudes wouldn’t get me back 20 years. I was in a really bad place.

Then a friend recommended a meditation course to me. I thought I’d give it a shot. Obviously the meditation course didn’t mention anything about the organization behind it. I had no idea it was anything other than a standard evening class, and it had exactly the right level of pseudo-mystical nonsense to it to get me comfortable. A little bit of tarot imagery here, some misinterpretation of chakras there, a touch of sweet-smelling incense to tie it all together and you have a meditation class that is exactly my level. I mean, let’s put it like this - I don’t believe in the power of crystals but I still have plenty dotted around my bedroom. I don’t believe in astrology but I do have my birth chart on my wall, and like to check my horoscope, sun sign and ascendant every day. Just for fun, of course.

Anyway, the meditation part of it was actually really good. I’d never had much luck silencing my mind, but Joyce - the lady running it - was really good at bringing you to that space. It was surprisingly freeing. I started attending regularly. One thing she insisted on was the start of each session, we would all sit in a circle and tell the others what we liked about each other. Only compliments, only truth. The first few sessions, no one really knew the others well enough to offer anything more than general niceties, but as it went on and we became closer the affirmations became more personal. More meaningful. And it felt really good just to have all that positivity, that affection uncritically directed at you. I thought it would be cheesy, but it was just this incredible feeling of being wanted and appreciated.

You know, every comedian goes on about how they love the business, how great everyone is. Every one of them is lying. It’s horrible and everyone in it is horrible, and being there, having people be genuinely lovely to me, I didn’t

know what to do with those feelings. Apparently in organizations that monitor cults, this method is called love bombing. I think I’d even heard of it somewhere before, but that didn’t make it any less effective.

I went to the meditation group for about three months, before Joyce mentioned a spiritual retreat she wanted us all to go on. It was in America,

a small community out in rural Arkansas, and all our expenses would be taken care of. That should have sent alarm bells ringing, but by that point I trusted her so implicitly that I was just excited I wouldn’t have to buy my own ticket. I won’t bore you with the details of the rest of my indoctrination, once I got to the Divine Chains community - or compound, to use the classic term, though there weren’t any fences or watchtowers. Suffice to say that there was more friendliness, support, meditation, and you know what? Really good food. I’m told that Arnold used to be a chef before they recruited him and well very much helped their cause.

I also met the leader of the organization, Claude Vilakazi, and he was so nice. People talk about charismatic dictators or cults of personality, but honestly you don’t even know what charisma is until you meet someone like Claude. Everything you say is valid and important you are always worthy of his time, and you know what? Deep down, you just think the same way. I mean, even now, after everything I still miss listening to him talk.

The Divine Chains philosophy was pretty simple. Throughout history there have been ten great links, holy figures of divine wisdom who were the manifested will of humanity to understand and better itself. All the heavy hitters you’d expect on the list: Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, Rama, Krishna - you get the idea. They weren’t reincarnations, per se, but the same divine impulse for human elevation manifested in different people. Claude Vilakazi was definitely not claiming to be the Eleventh Link, oh no. But he had had a vision that the Eleventh was soon to be born, and that he was to be their herald and guardian. The actual practices were a grab bag of all sorts of occultism, exactly what you’d expect from a group who laid claim to basically every major religion.

Honestly I don’t know how much I actually believed any of it, but I felt like I belonged there. I sold what little I had in order to fully earn my place in the community and I stayed. I had shelter, food, all the companionship I could ask for. I spent my days working in the field. We actually produced one of the only American rounds of rice-wine, which was how the cult made most of its money. And it felt good to be working with my hands. When the whole thing collapsed the papers made all sorts of awful claims about the place, but I don’t know if they were wholly made-up, or if they happened the whole time and I just didn’t notice. Or if they came about after things started to change. Started to go rotten.

I wasn’t there when they found the dog. Maybe if I had been, things would have been different. It was actually Joyce and a few others who stumbled across it while working the fields. The way they told it, it was thin and emaciated, barely able to walk and clearly suffering from some sort of sickness, but there was something in it that drew them closer. (static builds) As Joyce put it, we couldn’t help but love it. They took it to Claude, who was just as taken with the thing, and decided to adopt it. He named the dog Agape in front of everyone and took it into his private room to be cared for. That was the last I saw of the thing and… honestly, I kind of forgot about it for the next few weeks. But that was the moment when things started to get really weird.

Claude announced at evening meal a few days later that he had been dreaming of the Eleventh, and there were going to be some changes to help spiritually prepare us for their arrival. We needed to achieve a state of pure love. And to begin with, what that meant was that whenever we would meet one another or pass each other in the corridor or fields, we were to tell each other that we loved them. And, Claude said solemnly, you have to mean it. At the time it didn’t seem so sinister and we all began to do it without question, until a week later when I bumped into Mary outside the showers.

I told her I loved her and began to walk on, when her arm shot out and grabbed me by the shoulder. She spun me to face her and looked me dead in the eye.

“I don’t believe you,” she said.

I mean, she was right. She and I had never really got on, just two different personalities, but in that moment I was suddenly terrified of what might happen if she thought I was lying about it. So I said it again, and I tried very hard to mean it. Her eyes bored into me and I noticed that they were yellow and sickly, like she had really bad jaundice. And she nodded once, turned, and left.

It was about that time that the rice wine started to go bad. Every batch we brewed came out cloudy and undrinkable. We couldn’t figure out what was going on. I spent so long cleaning every piece of equipment over and over again, but it just kept happening. When we raised it with Claude or any of the others in the inner circle they would nod understandingly, then tell us it didn’t matter, that it was no longer our concern now that the Eleventh was so close. All the others seemed to accept this without question, and I didn’t feel I could press the matter without drawing negative attention, something I was desperate to avoid doing. So I just sat there as it grew bitter, cloudy, and rancid. Nobody bothered to get rid of the wine and the smell gradually began to permeate through the building.

Those closest to Claude began to change as well. Everyone in the community had always been very touchy-feely, but now it seemed like they were always touching each other, or holding hands or in some way, pressing their skin to each other even at mealtimes or in situations where it seemed really awkward. A few times they touched me, hugged me or shook my hand, and each time I could feel myself struggling not to recoil. They’d stare at me with their yellowing eyes and their skin was dry and somehow sticky when I pressed it. It yielded ever so slightly like there wasn’t anything solid inside. Even then, I didn’t think to leave. I couldn’t figure out what was going on but I trusted Claude so completely I couldn’t imagine it was truly harmful.

Then came the day when he announced that the Eleventh had arrived. I expected cheers, excitement, but instead there were just murmurings of resolve and determination as though a difficult task lay ahead. Claude asked who was going to be the first to meet them. Everyone went quiet, awed by the sudden opportunity for divine benediction. He walked up and gently touched Joyce on the cheek, and she smiled with a happiness more pure than I’d ever seen on a human face.

We formed into a long line, a chain holding hands with Joyce at the very end of it. It stretched from one end of the building to the other. I was at the other end so didn’t see what happened when she walked to Claude’s private chambers, but as she did, something passed down the line. I don’t know how to describe it really. Did you ever do that experiment in science class, where you held hands in a line and the teacher passed a very gentle electric shock down through the students, feeling of a charge going through you? It was like that but what passed through us was warm and slick, and seemed to flow through my body like oil and out into the ground. Everyone felt it. Their blissful smiles made me feel even more nauseated than the sensation itself. I never saw Joyce again.

Each day after evening meal, Claude chose someone else to meet the Eleventh. Each time, the same process, the same daisy-chaining of hands, at the end the same sick feeling sliding through me. Another member of the community gone, the line getting shorter. A fear fell over the others and at first I thought it was the same fear that I had, but when I heard them talk of it, what they feared was that they wouldn’t get chosen. That somehow this chance for pure, divine love would pass them by. And I suddenly came to the realization that perhaps I didn’t belong here like I thought I did.

So one night I decided to see for myself. I waited until after lights-out and slipped from the dormitory through the empty corridors towards Claude’s private rooms. The moon was bright through the window, casting everything in stark pale shadow. As I got close, I began to smell it. It wasn’t rancid, not like the wine, but sweet like overripe fruit or sugar that’s cooked too long. I found myself standing in front of the understated wooden door that I’d now seen almost a dozen people disappear into. My hand reached slowly for the handle, when I heard someone moving behind it.

No, it wasn’t someone moving. It was many people, I’m sure of it. The sounds of dozens of limbs moving and stepping and shuffling in unison. Then laughter. Then weeping. Then movement again. I looked down at my shaking hand, and saw that seeping under the door was something slick and colorless, a greasy residue that smelled overpoweringly of that sickly sweet odor.

I took a step back, suddenly nauseated and almost fell into the arms of Claude, who had silently come up behind me. He held me for a moment,

looking with such intensity that I felt like he was weighing my soul, his expression unreadable. Then he sighed and shook his head.

“You do not belong here. You are not worthy of its love. Leave.”

Even after everything I’d seen I can’t tell you how deeply those words hurt me. I turned and I ran out of the building, out of the compound, out into the night. I ran until I reached a road, then sat there shaking until a passing car took pity on me and took me down to the local sheriff’s office. Eventually my case got passed up the line; apparently a few different government agencies were interested in the Divine Chain, mainly for possible tax fraud, and my testimony was pretty much exactly what they needed to go in there and check it out. They didn’t tell me what they found until after I’d had a few sessions with a psychiatrist who specialized in cult deprogramming, and I’m sure it wouldn’t be hard to find out most of the details online. I’m pretty sure it made national news.

There is one thing, however, that I think they lied about. The reports detailed a mass grave in the rooms of Claude Vilakazi with bodies mutilated and mixed together, some who’d been dead for weeks, but I don’t believe that. Whatever was in that room, I am absolutely sure that when the authorities arrived it was still alive. I just don’t know what alive means when it comes to something like that. It doesn’t matter though. The compound was destroyed in an ‘accidental generator explosion’, and everything was gone.

There’s a part of me that’s glad, a sick little part that’s happy, that whatever love was there, whatever I couldn’t be a part of, is gone from the world. And no one else gets it either.

Statement ends.

I swear, I almost find the cult dedicated to the dark powers of fear easier to understand in the more mundane sort. At least they have some consistency. (inhale) This, well… the Corruption at work if I had to guess, though with unsettling echoes of uh, Fleshliness.

I suppose, uh -

[STATIC RISES]
Wait.

Oh, uh. (clears throat)

[A PHONE RINGS. THE ARCHIVIST’S LABORED BREATHING IS HEARD.]
Yeah, I think, um - I think you should probably get down he–

[THERE’S A LOUD THUD.]
TREVOR
Hello, lad.

JULIA
You miss us?

[JON MAKES A NOISE OF PROTEST, BUT IS SHOVED DOWN.]
JULIA
Sit. Down.

TREVOR
Or we check if you’re still human enough to bleed.

[JULIA LAUGHS.]
JULIA
You’ve got something of ours.

TREVOR
Someone.

JULIA
Took him right from under our noses.

TREVOR
In our own house.

JULIA
I call that rude, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST
Gerry wasn’t yours. You had no right –

TREVOR
(mockingly) You hear that, Julia? “Gerry”!

JULIA
Sounds like you’ve got pretty chummy. (threateningly) Where is he?

ARCHIVIST
Gone.

JULIA
What do you mean, gone?

TREVOR
Not gonna ask you again, son.

ARCHIVIST
I burned the page. Released him.

[A PAUSE.]
TREVOR
Aren’t that right noble of you?

JULIA
Proper humanitarian.

TREVOR
So. Let me get this straight. We take you in, protect you from the thing that’s huntin’ you -

JULIA
Spare your life even though you’re no help -

TREVOR
- help you, give you access to one of our most valuable resources, and you steal it from us, piss off back to England, and then burn it? That’s just inconsiderate.

ARCHIVIST
He asked me to.

JULIA
Oh really? You always do what evil books tell you to, do you?

TREVOR
Gotta say I’m disappointed. Genuinely thought you were different… but you’re just another monster. Not even worth the chase.

JULIA
You want the honors, old man?

TREVOR
Don’t mind if I do.

[THE TWO OF THEM CHUCKLE.]
DAISY
Get away from him.

TREVOR
Oh, who’s this? You got yourself a watchdog?

DAISY
More of a lapdog. Scrawny isn’t she?

DAISY
I said get back.

TREVOR
Malnourished I’d say. how long since you last tasted blood?

JULIA
You think you can take us both?

DAISY
I’d enjoy it. I’ll start with you, old bastard, he’s slower and doesn’t guard his neck. And you worry about him too much, don’t you? I go for him, you get sloppy. Predictable.

JULIA
Sure. Or I slit your little bookworm’s throat.

DAISY
Do it. It’ll give me a chance to finish off your dad.

TREVOR
I’m not her father.

ARCHIVIST
(winded) Not by blood maybe.

JULIA
Shut it.

[A LONG SILENCE. TREVOR TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]</SPAN>
TREVOR
Come on, Julia.

JULIA
What??

TREVOR
There’s no rush. (chuckling) We’ve got all the time in the world. Besides, this place is just full of monsters. She can’t guard ‘em all.

JULIA
(angered, labored breathing) Fine.

[DAISY LETS OUT A BESTIAL GROWL.]
[THE DOOR SLAMS. SEVERAL MOMENTS OF SILENCE.]
ARCHIVIST
…thank you. I don’t know - Daisy? (Daisy groans) Are you alright?

DAISY
Don’t touch me.

ARCHIVIST
Christ, he was right, I didn’t - didn’t - when did you get so thin?

DAISY
I’m not, it’s fine.

ARCHIVIST
It’s the Hunt, isn’t it? Without it-

DAISY
I’m fine. Just haven’t been hungry. I’m strong enough.

ARCHIVIST
Clearly.

DAISY
They’re not gone yet. We could still get them -

ARCHIVIST
Daisy, no. It’s like you say. Don’t listen to the blood.

DAISY
Listen to the quiet.

ARCHIVIST
Even so, if it’s having this much of an effect -

DAISY
I’m not going back. I can’t let it in again.

ARCHIVIST
But it… what if it kills you?

DAISY
Heh. Always said I was dedicated to justice.

ARCHIVIST
(concerned) Daisy. It’s not - you can’t think like that.

DAISY
Jon. Do you have any idea how much damage you can do if you’re a police officer who wants to hurt people? How much the system will protect you?

I managed to keep most of it from Basira, but-

ARCHIVIST
It wasn’t you. That was the Hunt.

DAISY
We were the same.

ARCHIVIST
You’d never known anything different.

DAISY
Because I never wanted to. All that time trapped was good for one thing.

Thinking. And I did a lot of it. I’ve made my choice.

ARCHIVIST
Okay. So what do we do when they come back?

DAISY
I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
Come on. We’d better tell Basira.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Hm. (sharp inhale) I’ve, uh, I’ve been doing a lot of thinking after what happened with Daisy last week. About- what I can do. What I am. What feels- right.

I found a- erm, I went back to Eli- Peter’s office, to that box of tapes, started rifling through. And I started to pay attention to the ones I… wasn’t drawn to. The tapes I instinctively wanted to discard.

There was one, this one, that my hand… pulled back from. I dropped it, twice, when I went to pick it up. Even now, I’m… (slight quaver to his voice) struggling to hit play.

I am the avatar of awful knowledge and revealed secrets, so what does it notwant me to know?

[LONG SIGH.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST’S OFFICE, 2008]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
(sharp sigh) Right. No use putting it off further.

[WE HEAR THE RUSTLE OF PAPER. GERTRUDE BEGINS TO READ.]
GERTRUDE
“When he opened his eyes, he saw nothing, but he heard her breathing, slow and steady and focused, and he immediately knew that she was finally going to- (slight stumble) -kill him. When the garden shears plunged into his chest, he was surprised by how little actual pain there was- just the sudden feeling of moisture on his chest and the realization that his body was growing weak, fading away.

He wished she would say she was sorry she was doing this, that she loved him, that she would miss him. But he knew better, and his final thought was a gentle sadness at how little he was surprised.”

[AS SHE READS, A STATIC BEGINS, FIRST A RELATIVELY STANDARD CRACKLING, THAT SOON EVOLVES INTO A DEEPER, MORE WHOOSHING SOUND.]
GERTRUDE
“And so Eric Delano ended.”

[THE WHOOSHING SOUND FORMS MORE CLEARLY INTO A SHAKING BREATH.]
GERTRUDE
…Eric?

ERIC DELANO
Gertrude, I- Wha- What am I doing here?

[FOLLOWING EVERY WORD HE SPEAKS IS AN ECHO, LIGHT AND AIRY AND GHOSTLY. HIS VOICE ITSELF IS SOFT, ALMOST COMFORTING IN ITS MONOTONY.]
GERTRUDE
Mary. She gave me your page.

ERIC
She!- Oh.

GERTRUDE
Yes. Well. I’m sorry.

ERIC
Wasn’t even hard for her, was it? Handing me over? No sign of regret.

GERTRUDE
(still a bit shaky) No.

ERIC
No.

GERTRUDE
I’m sorry, Eric; I know this must be hard- I just read your death. I didn’t realize it would quite so…

[SHE TRAILS OFF, FLAPS THE PAGE AT HIM.]
ERIC
You should have seen what she did to my body afterwards.

GERTRUDE
Did you?

ERIC
Oh, yes. She bound me afterwards and made me watch. Don’t know why. Wasn’t really in the best state to ask. Maybe she just wanted some company.

GERTRUDE
…While she disposed of your body?

ERIC
God, I was a mess. I mean, part of me kind of suspected she’d killed before, but clearly she hadn’t done it enough to be a decent hand at chopping up and dumping bodies. (heh.) She was having a real hard time of it. My legs were all over the shop. (long inhale) Would probably have been funny, if it hadn’t been me.

GERTRUDE
What’s it like? Being bound to the book?

ERIC
I don’t know how to describe it. Never was great with words.

Bad. It feels bad. All the time.

I know that I’m not really Eric; I’m just a memory someone wrote down. It hurts, most of the time. I don’t like it.

GERTRUDE
But, you’re still here.

ERIC
I suppose. Mary used to get me up to bounce ideas off of. Talk through her thoughts and theories. Never listened to me, obviously, but (light, pointed) nothing new there.

GERTRUDE
Well, it’s good to see you. I suppose.

ERIC
You too. (beat) You got old.

GERTRUDE
Better than being dead.

ERIC
(short sigh of a laugh) Fair enough. To be honest, I’m impressed, more than anything. Hard to get old in this business. You either die, or you, uh, stay young. (short, uncomfortable pause) …How did Mary look?

GERTRUDE
(same sort of short laugh) She got old, too.

ERIC
S’pose that makes sense. And Gerry? Have you seen my son?

GERTRUDE
No; I’ve never met him, I’m afraid. Mary talks of him a lot. Well, she seems very proud.

ERIC
That’s…not as reassuring as you think it is.

GERTRUDE
I see your point.

[SHORT PAUSE.
ERIC
Why did she give me to you?

GERTRUDE
I- I don’t know. She seemed to think it was a gift.

ERIC
Mm, charming.

GERTRUDE
She said she had one final mystery to explore. With the book.

ERIC
Oh. Oh. You know what that means, don’t you?

GERTRUDE
I have a pretty strong suspicion, yes.

[ERIC HEHS.]
GERTRUDE
What?

ERIC
Oh, just thinking. Five years as her husband, god knows how many as her possession, and she just couldn’t stand being bound in the same book as me.

GERTRUDE
Hm. I’m sorry.

ERIC
Yeah, it doesn’t feel great. But being dead, I s’pose you don’t feel things quite as strongly. Little bit- flat.

I’m aware of the heartbreak, but I don’t know if I actually feel it. It’s strange, really.

GERTRUDE
Yes. Yes, it sounds it.

[ERIC TAKES A SLOW, DEEP BREATH.]
ERIC
So what now?

GERTRUDE
I’m not entirely sure. I was probably going to burn you, if you’re amenable to the idea.

ERIC
…Yes. Yes, I think that would be for the best.

GERTRUDE
I’m just trying to figure out if there was a reason she gave you to me. The way she was smiling… as if she was handing over a secret.

ERIC
I don’t know. (sigh) Do you have any questions? Any unfinished business?

GERTRUDE
(heh-hm) Of course. When she killed you, there were plenty of outstanding cases and such, but nothing that would still be relevant.

ERIC
Sorry, what do you mean?

GERTRUDE
Well, you were working on quite a few statements when she killed you.

ERIC
Gertrude, I left the Archives months before she killed me.

GERTRUDE
What? No. That’s- That’s not possible.

ERIC
Of course. They didn’t tell you. Why would they? Mary probably thought it was funnier if you didn’t know, and Wright would have preferred you not to know. How is he, by the way?

GERTRUDE
James? He died about twelve years ago. Elias is Head of the Institute now.

ERIC
Elias? Elias Bouchard, seriously?!

GERTRUDE
Hm, he’s changed a lot.

ERIC
Must have!

GERTRUDE
So. What did they not want me to know?

ERIC
I quit.

GERTRUDE
You- Sorry, you quit?

ERIC
Yeah. I figured out how.

GERTRUDE
I- I just assumed-

How?

ERIC
Well, that’s it, isn’t it? I suppose that’s why she gave me to you. One final screw you to the Eye.

GERTRUDE
Eric. How did you quit?

[ERIC HOLDS BACK.]
GERTRUDE
(warning) Eric,

ERIC
(short laugh) Sorry. I just- (laugh) I don’t mean to be a dick, but- well, it’s been a long time since I’ve had any sort of- leverage, I guess? Just a- little bit of power. It’s kind of nice.

GERTRUDE
Are you going to tell me?

ERIC
Thinking about it.

GERTRUDE
Think harder,

ERIC
You know, you were never actually all that nice to me when I worked for you, Gertrude. Not like Michael, or Emma.

GERTRUDE
Eric,

ERIC
What, you gonna threaten me? Look at me. Best I can currently hope for is to be burnt to ash. (inhale, sharp sigh) I’m going to tell you, just- maybe there’s a price?

GERTRUDE
What do you want?

ERIC
I don’t know- I haven’t had a chance to think.

GERTRUDE
Eric.

ERIC
Fine! (short pause) I want two things.

GERTRUDE
(impatient) I’m listening.

ERIC
I want you to find my son. If Mary is- if she’s gone, or worse, I want you to make sure he’s alright.

GERTRUDE
(amused) Hm. I’m not exactly a mother figure.

ERIC
You could hardly do worse than her.

GERTRUDE
Hm. Fine. But I don’t know what growing up with Mary has done to him. If he’s… gone rotten, I can’t promise anything.

ERIC
I understand.

GERTRUDE
I suppose he might be useful.

ERIC
(DRY AS THE SAHARA) Oh, sentimental as ever.

GERTRUDE
Hm. And the second thing?

ERIC
I want to make my statement.

GERTRUDE
Is that really necessary?

ERIC
I don’t want to disappear on her terms. Or yours. I want to speak my piece, have it recorded.

GERTRUDE
Fine. Tape’s running.

Subject is Eric Delano, recorded 21st of July, 2008, regarding…

ERIC
What else? Me, Mary, and the Archives.

GERTRUDE
As you wish. Begin whenever you’re ready.

ERIC
(exhale) I’m almost not sure where to start, now it comes to it.

I always loved ghosts. They fascinated me. Not the rattling chains and horror part of it, of course, but the mystery, the promise of secret knowledge, of seeing something that no one else was privy to. A secret world that gripped my imagination.

So when I finished my Masters in library science and saw a vacancy at the Magnus Institute, of all places, I jumped at the chance. The chance to pursue my passion and my career at the same time seemed like too good an opportunity to pass up! It was only an assistant archivist position, of course, but that was fine.

A good entry position- I’d, I’d soon move on, I told myself.

Heh. Yeah.

And for the first few years, it was pretty much exactly the job I’d expected. Longer hours than I’d hoped, and the Archivist seemed less interested in doing her job than I was, but all told there were worse places to work.

Then I met Mary. She was like no one I’d met before in my life. She was beautiful, like a- like a shark is beautiful. Every moment she made was deliberate, sharp, and her eyes were always focused on something, always watching. And when she looked at me, I always felt afraid.

But there was something else. Something under the fear. Something that made me feel very aware of all my blood. (exhale) I don’t know what she saw in me, not really. But when she walked up to me and told me that I was taking her to dinner, I couldn’t help but nod.

I’ve always been- (sheepish laugh) Well, now, I wouldn’t call myself a coward, but I’ve never been in a fight. Never even been punched. Maybe it’s- luck. Maybe it’s the fact that I can never really bring myself to push back from people.

And Mary pushed so hard. Harder, even, than you. And I let her, because she gave me something I had never before experienced: Danger.

The things she taught me, had me do- I’d never known anything like it. Whenever I kissed her, it tasted like blood.

I knew what she was, I,I think. What she was capable of. But I convinced myself that I was safe, that she loved me. It made me feel special. That I was somehow protected from all the cold cruelty that she tried to keep hidden, but leaked out in so many ways.

I remember visiting her, shortly after she’d started her books business. I found her sitting opposite a corpse, a well-dressed middle-aged man who sat in a huge armchair she kept in the back office. She looked me in the eye and told me he was her uncle, prone to drink, making an unexpected visit, and had passed out in the chair. (amused, wistful hm) I knew she didn’t have an uncle. I knew the man was dead.

She didn’t lie to me because she expected me to believe her; she lied to me because she expected me to obey her. And I did. We rescheduled our date to the following day.

But d’you know what the strange thing is? Despite the violence, death, even my own murder, I still don’t feel like she… betrayed me. She was what she was. And I knew that. And even though I told myself that she would never harm me- of course not! I was her husband, her true love- even then, the only one lying was me.

She never promised anything, not even in her vows. She never betrayed me. Not like you. She never played dumb when I was stalked by bloated, blood-soaked things, or told me I was imagining it when your friend Adelard dropped a screaming box into the Thames. She didn’t try to keep me in the dark just so I wouldn’t stop being useful; she never made me complicit in a thousand different nightmares, and lives ruined for the sick joy of some otherworldly voyeur.

Compared to that, I suppose a few murders were easier to stomach.

But I couldn’t be part of it. Not once Mary told me what was really going on.

I know what you say, what you think you’re doing, saving the world one poor doomed soul at a time- I mean, I understand; I do. (exhale) But I couldn’t be a part of it. Not when I saw what happened to everyone else you involved.

I had to get out, to escape this place. I had a son to look after; he needed me!

Or so I thought.

And that’s when you turned nasty, isn’t it? When all your resources, they no longer want to serve your purpose. I suppose you didn’t know there was a way out, a way to escape. But if you had, would you have told me?

Mary, at least, played straight with me. She knew all about the Institute. And when we were married, when she was sure I could handle it, she laid it all out for me: the rituals, the Powers, all the messy little cogs of the games you play with the universe.

She laid out her own plans as well, her dreams of power. In many ways, I suppose they were no better than yours. But at least she didn’t bother to hide behind noble aims.

Maybe that’s why I chose her, in the end. At least she was honest. (pfft) Or perhaps I actually was afraid. Terrified of the crossroads where I’d found myself, and I chose the option I thought might keep Gerry safe.

At least if I was home with him, I could perhaps soften the edges of his mother.

I suppose I never really understood. No matter how clear the situation was, how well it was explained to me, I just couldn’t see the parts of it that I didn’t want to.

Two years, I tried to figure out how to quit, how to leave this place. And when I finally did, when I felt the Watcher’s grip slip away, it left me in such a state I was no longer useful to Mary, and… she did what Mary does. (short laugh) It was fitting, I suppose. Even after everything, she made me taste blood one last time.

GERTRUDE
Well, thank you for that. I’ll make sure it’s stored somewhere- safe.

[ERIC INHALES SHAKILY.]
ERIC
Right.

GERTRUDE
Something wrong?

ERIC
I just- (small sigh) I thought it would be more of a relief.

GERTRUDE
Mm. I’m sorry it wasn’t as cathartic as you were hoping. But we had an agreement.

ERIC
Yeah. I know.

GERTRUDE
So. How did you do it? How did you quit the Archives?

ERIC
It was actually really simple. Not easy, but simple. (heh) You’ll kick yourself when I tell you.

GERTRUDE
(get on with it) O…kay…

ERIC
You were almost there, you know, with your theory that James could watch us from any eye, even an illustration. What did you do? How did you sever that link?

GERTRUDE
My God!

ERIC
I left to avoid dragging my family, my son into this life, to try to look after him. But Mary decided that a newly blinded husband was simply too much of a burden.

GERTRUDE
Did you need to do anything special? Any… ritual, or…?

ERIC
Just as long as they’re useless. I went the extra mile, destroyed them completely, but- I’m sure you’ll find something (inhale) neater.

A strong acid, precisely applied? That sounds more your style, if you decide to do it, that is.

GERTRUDE
(conflicted sound) Well, I don’t know.

ERIC
No. It’s not an easy sacrifice to make, is it?

GERTRUDE
I still have work to do.

ERIC
Don’t you always.

GERTRUDE
Yeah. Well, (exhale) I think I’ll rather do some research of my own, before the rather extreme step of blinding myself.

ERIC
It’s the only way. Trust me, I tried them all.

GERTRUDE
Yes. I remember.

ERIC
So, was there anything else?

GERTRUDE
No. No, I don’t think so.

ERIC
Then if you don’t mind? I think I’d like to go away now.

[SLIGHTEST OF PAUSES.]
GERTRUDE
Yes.

I think that’s probably for the best. You’re certain burning will work?

ERIC
If it doesn’t, I’m sure you’ll figure something out.

GERTRUDE
Then let’s get it over with.

ERIC
If you see Mary again, tell her- (beat) No. I guess there’s not really anything else to say.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST’S OFFICE, PRESENT]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY.]
ARCHIVIST
Fuck.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ????, LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[TYPING SOUNDS. A SMALL SIGH-CUM-WHISTLE.]
MARTIN
(still typing) Oh. Hi. Hello again.

[HE KEEPS TYPING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(small laugh) Sorry pal, false alarm this time.

[HE STOPS TYPING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(sigh, voice darkens dramatically) Unless-Peter.

[THE CLOCK TICKS IN THE BACKGROUND]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Look, Peter, I-

[THE DOOR IS THROWN OPEN. THE ARCHIVIST BURSTS IN.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin!

MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh- (voice more whispered) Jon! (he drops something) God, don’t do that!

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, I just-

MARTIN
No, it’s fine! I j- you just surprised me, that’s- (surprised) Jesus, you alright? You- You look like hell.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Uh, Ri, Right, I um, God, I get weak. Hungry, I guess, sort of. I,I’ve been trying to avoid, being, um- sticking to old statements? Thank you for your little intervention, by the way.

MARTIN
Look, I wouldn’t have to if you’d hadn’t been-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Yes no, I know, I know; I’m sorry; that didn’t come out right; honestly, thank you. It’s been hell, but- I, I did need to hear it.

MARTIN
(pleasantly surprised) Oh, um. Uh,h, good. Are the others- helping?

ARCHIVIST
(:))))_ Oh. They’ve been keeping a, um, very close eye on me. (half laugh) Well, that’s not important- no, well, it is important, but it’s, it’s not why I’m here, I-

MARTIN
Jon. Calm down. What do you want?

ARCHIVIST
I know. I know what you said, but I just- (inhale) I think I’ve found a way for us to leave the Institute.

[BRIEF PAUSE.]
MARTIN
O- kay…?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. But it’s- (heavy inhale) It’s pretty drastic.

MARTIN
(hah) What, you going to gouge your eyes out, or something?

[BEAT.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(gets it) Fuck off.

Right. (unable to make words) Uh, uh, right, uh… (groping for words continues) Erm… like, I mean… permanently? Or…

ARCHIVIST
I, I, I don’t know; I suppose. I,If your vision comes back, the Beholding probably does as well- probably. But i-it’s not like it’s easy to only blind yourself temporarily anyways i- I-

MARTIN
(weak) Uh, y,yeah, yeah, uh… H-Have you told the others, or?…

ARCHIVIST
No, you’re the first.

MARTIN
Why?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, because… because, because I trust you. I, I’m trying to think about what to do, and I… (exhale) If I did try this, I don’t want to do it alone. But we could leave here, you and me. Escape.

MARTIN
(weary) Jon. Don’t do this.

ARCHIVIST
Do what?

MARTIN
Make it my decision.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not-

MARTIN
I mean, (mirthless laugh) Could you even survive at this stage? Is there anything else keeping you alive?

ARCHIVIST
(squawk) Uh, I,I don’t know. I don’t- know. But… maybe it’s worth it? The risk- y,you and me, together, getting out of here-

[MARTIN SNIFFS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
-one way or another.

MARTIN
Jon.

[HE GIVES A SMALL SIGH.]
ARCHIVIST
(sharp exhale) No. No, o,of course, this was stupid; you have your own plans going on, don’t you?

MARTIN
Just- Look, I need to see this thing through with Peter to the end. If, If what he’s saying is even half true, I need to be there.

ARCHIVIST
But what if you don’t? (small exhale) We could just leave. I mean, whatever their plan is for me, I am damn sure that doing that isn’t it. I’d derail everything- we could derail everything, and then just- leave!

[WHEN MARTIN LAUGHS, ALL HUMORLESS AND DRY, IT NEARLY SOUNDS LIKE HE’S CRYING.]
ARCHIVIST
What?

[MARTIN KEEPS LAUGHING.]
MARTIN
Nothing; It’s just- (one more laugh) It’s just ironic, that’s all.

ARCHIVIST
Martin…

MARTIN
Who are you kidding, Jon? You’re not going to do any of that.

ARCHIVIST
I, I could.

MARTIN
(still brimming with false laughter) But you won’t. That’s why you came to me, isn’t it?

[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
You know I can’t do it, not now; you don’t want to blind yourself; you don’t want to die; what you want is a reason to not do those things, so- you come to me.

Well, you’re welcome. B,Because I can’t follow you on this one.

[THE ARCHIVIST HAS BEEN EXHALING REPEATEDLY DURING THIS PERFORMANCE.]
ARCHIVIST
The Lonely’s really got you, hasn’t it?

MARTIN
(no hesitation) You know, I think it always did.

[SMALL PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
(quiet) Maybe. (beat) Well, I’ll be here, if you ever need me.

MARTIN
(also quieter, softer) I hope so.

ARCHIVIST
(faster) Just-don’t-wait-too-long,okay?

[HE MOVES TOWARDS THE DOOR, SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
If you haven’t already.

[HE OPENS THE DOOR, LEAVES. IT SHUTS.]
MARTIN
Yeah. (wearier) Yeah.
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Any luck?

BASIRA
No. If they’re still around, they’re staying hidden.

ARCHIVIST
Not like there’s any shortage of places to lay low.

BASIRA
Hmm. London’s what, 600 square miles?

ARCHIVIST
607.

BASIRA
(sighs) Whatever.

ARCHIVIST
So I guess we’ll want to look out for a pair of homeless serial killers now. I’ll add it to the list.

BASIRA
No sign of Annabelle either.

ARCHIVIST
You still on that?

BASIRA
You’re not?

ARCHIVIST
I mean… I don’t know how much she can predict or manipulate the future, but I think she’s proven she can at least avoid us finding her.

BASIRA
Yeah, well, it makes me feel better.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose that’s something. How’s Daisy?

BASIRA
I don’t know. She’s recovered from your little… confrontation, but she’s still getting weaker. I’m worried she’s -

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

BASIRA
Why did you call her and not me?

ARCHIVIST
Honestly, I panicked. Her name came up first on my phone.

BASIRA
I’m trying to convince her to go after them. To, uh… Hunt them.

ARCHIVIST
Why?

BASIRA
Because I’m not going to lose her.

ARCHIVIST
She goes hunting again, you might anyway.

BASIRA
And if she doesn’t, she might die.

ARCHIVIST
Something you’re fine with in certain other cases, and something she’s made peace with.

BASIRA
Because of the guilt she feels over the stuff the Hunt made her do. It’s not her fault.

ARCHIVIST
Earlier, when she was still out of it, I… I saw some of the things she was talking about, some of the things she did while she was police. I’m not convinced I disagree with her assessment.

Do you want me to tell you?

BASIRA
No. No I don’t.

ARCHIVIST
You knew, didn’t you? You knew the sort of things she did, and you let her.

BASIRA
No. Not exactly. I thought… It’s not that simple.

ARCHIVIST
It never is. But that doesn’t make it okay.

BASIRA
None of us are who we were, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
No. I suppose not. In many ways it’s simpler now isn’t it? At least now our demons have names.

BASIRA
Hmm.

ARCHIVIST
Have you thought any more about what I said?

BASIRA
Yeah, I don’t think I can. Daisy wouldn’t come if I didn’t, and I’m not leaving her behind. Besides, both of us being blind would be… anyway, being stuck here isn’t exactly her main problem right now.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose not.

BASIRA
And with those Hunters still out there–

ARCHIVIST
No, I understand. Just wanted to make sure you knew you had the choice.

BASIRA
Yeah. Anyway, I should go check on her.

ARCHIVIST
Sure. Do you mind closing the door?

BASIRA
Statement time.

[DOOR SWINGS SHUT]
ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Statement of Tova McHugh regarding their string of near-death experiences. Original statement given December 3rd, 2002. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
You’ve got to understand, I have so much to live for. Oh, okay, that’s not quite it. I know most people have plenty to live for, but what I mean is that my life does good. I put a lot into the world. Did you read about that homelessness initiative that got 8,000 people into shelters? That was me. I’ve financed drug projects, organized inner city violence initiatives. I’ve always been so aware of the position I’m in, and keen to use that power to actually help people. And that’s not money from some trust fund. I mean sure my parents loaned me the money to start, but I built my business up from the ground, and we now provide jobs for almost 700 people. And I know that everyone’s life has value, but I just need to be clear that my impact on the world is a positive one. My existence does a lot of good, and that’s only gotten more true since all this started. I’ve given more, spent more time on charitable stuff, and helped more people. Sorry, I’m just… aware of how this story makes me look and I don’t want you to think I’m some selfish monster grinding people up just to extend my own ghoulish life. I’m trying to do good.

I’ve always tried to live a healthy life; never smoked or did drugs, watched my diet, got plenty of exercise. So when I had an epileptic seizure, the first one of my entire life, the month before my wedding… that wasn’t fair. I mean, even if I had to have epilepsy - which I could live with - having my first attack at the top of a staircase, five weeks before the happiest day of my life, that’s just not fair! There was no reason for it, I’d done everything right! It shouldn’t have happened like that.

I remember the odd tingling feeling rising up from my stomach, through my lungs, until it hit my head. I’d never felt anything like it. I didn’t know what to do and even if I had I don’t know if I could have done it in time. I don’t remember falling exactly, just the world spinning and moving around me as I remained absolutely still. There were these cracks, like gunshots in my head. And even now I don’t know if that was part of the seizure, or how my mind processed the breaking bones. Then I was on the ground, looking back up the stairs, and thinking to myself how strange it was that I wasn’t there. I’d been stood just there, so why couldn’t I see myself? Everything seemed very loud, then very quiet, then very bright. The last thing I saw was a man rushing to help. He was wearing a t-shirt with a silly little cartoon alien on it, and I thought, was that from an advert? And then I went away.

You know, it’s strange. I’d never really feared death. I’m agnostic… Was agnostic… And always thought that if there was a God, then He’d know what was in your heart, and if you’d lived a good life then you’d be alright. But more likely I thought it would be nothing. No heaven or hell, no thought or sensation, just… Nothing. You wouldn’t even notice you were gone. But it wasn’t like that at all. I don’t know if I have words for it. How can you describe being aware of the absence of everything? Life. Light. Warmth. It was very dark, and very cold. It dawned on me that this might be my existence forever. There, beyond time, and I tried so desperately to scream, but I had no lungs or throat in that dreadful place. I couldn’t even cry. Then I was back in the light with such a sudden jolt that I found myself trying to blink, even though I had no eyelids or even eyes. But I could still see.

I was standing in what seemed to be an operating theatre. Doctors and nurses in scrubs and masks buzzed around and through me, busy with something on the long table in the center of the room. It didn’t take me long to realize that what they were busy with was me. I didn’t look like myself, so bruised and discolored, with a great gash on my forehead. Is it odd to say that this sight filled me with relief? There was a sudden rush of realization. I wasn’t dead, I was having a near-death experience! I’d read about people having encounters almost exactly like this one, and they had seemed fine. I might still be okay. I might live. Then I became aware of a long, steady droning sound, and my vision turned to the flat unmoving line on the heart rate monitor. The panic I felt before returned all at once, but now focused, acute. I didn’t have any arms but still I tried to reach out, flailing towards the doctor who was leaning over my body, trying to restart my heart. And then I felt something. I felt myself reach into his chest, held the strong steady beat of his heart. Calm. Calm while I was lying dead on the table. There was a sudden moment of rage and hate that flowed out of me down at his torso, and he began to convulse. He staggered backwards from the table arms dropping to his side, struggling to speak. And I heard the drone of the monitor turning to a beep. Beep. Beep. And I was gone.

When I woke up I was lying in a hospital bed, very much alive although the faces around me were grave. I asked her what had happened, and one of the nurses very kindly explained to me about the seizure, my fall, and what my recovery might look like going forward. But I could tell she was holding something back, and after some pressing, she finally told me that the doctor who saved my life had suffered a fatal heart attack while he was treating me. I didn’t tell her about what I saw, what I was trying to convince myself was a simple dream. A bizarre near-death experience. I couldn’t have killed him, it wasn’t possible. But there was no point to putting that thought out into the world anyway. I just had to try and forget.

My recovery time was nothing short of miraculous. Within a couple of days I was out of the hospital, and my broken bones all seemed to be clean breaks that healed very fast. In the end, we didn’t even need to delay the wedding and… despite everything, it was perfect. The church was magnificent, the reception the most fun I’ve had in years, and Daven was exactly the man I wanted to spend the rest of my life with. In lieu of gifts, we asked people to donate to a local children’s charity, and they sent us a wonderful thank-you card. We honeymooned in the Caribbean, and everything was right with the world.

It was a year later that I slipped in the shower and cracked my head on the tap. I hadn’t had any further seizures, and in fact the doctors hadn’t be able to find any trace of epilepsy in my scans at all. No, this was simply a freak accident. Could have happened to anybody, but it happened to me. Again I found myself in that dark, cold place, and this time I simply waited, hoping against hope that this time, it wouldn’t be forever. And to my great relief, it wasn’t. Again I found myself present over my own body, a severed presence watching as the water continued to beat down on my unmoving form. I was starting to develop a suspicion, a vague idea of what might be going on. There was no one else around. Daven was on a business trip and I was alone in the house. I tried to move and I could. It almost felt like walking though I had no legs to carry me. Unable to touch the bathroom door, I simply moved through it, then out into the world, looking for something I couldn’t quite name.

Perhaps that doctor had not been an accident. Perhaps his death and my life had been one and the same. Did I have to do it again? The idea appalled me to my core, but it seemed the only explanation. I had to live, I couldn’t die, not then. We were on the verge of closing a deal that would provide fresh water to impoverished communities in a dozen developing countries. Without me, it would fall through. So I kept moving, senses attuned to what I needed, and I found her sitting in a park all on her own. An old woman, frail and shivering, staring out of the ducks over the water, empty bread bag by her side. If only I could have explained it to her, I’m sure she would have understood. She might even have agreed. But I couldn’t talk to her, and I needed to live. She was found dead of a stroke, and I woke up in my shower with a splitting headache.

I thought I’d solved it. If anything else like that happened, I knew what I needed to do. But when I began to have a fatal allergic reaction during a lunch date only two weeks later, despite having no allergies previously, I realized I had miscalculated. Perhaps it was life itself that I was taking, and the old woman that had hardly any left in her, and it had run out too fast. This time I sought out a homeless man. Young and strong, though his life was clearly over as he tried to destroy himself through drinking. I followed him into an alley, and his liver gave out, just at the moment the EpiPen was pushed into my leg. But even that seemed to run out faster than it should have. The car accident was only three months later, and I even found myself resenting the poor vagrant for not having more life to sustain me.

I made a decision. One I am deeply ashamed of, but I honestly thought it was for the best. I couldn’t keep living like that in the shadow of death, of what I had to do to keep going. One sacrifice, I thought. Just one, from someone with their entire life ahead of them. I took a newborn. It’s strange, the maths you do of it all. A full life ahead of it, but aside from the devastated parents, no real harm to the world as a whole. No good works left unfinished. It was a baby born to poverty, one whose life I thought would bring it pain, and I believed it would be the last I would ever need to do. Surely this would be enough, surely it would see me through to the time I was actually meant to die. That I could go peacefully into oblivion, not trapped in that dreadful darkness. But it kept me alive for 10 months, still less than the doctor. Eventually I realized it had nothing to do with age or health. It was about connection. About joy. The more friends, family, loved ones the person has, the further out the terror of sudden death spreads from me. The longer it keeps me alive.

I’m 40 now, and I have taken the life of beloved mothers, respected professionals, pillars of the community. But I have done so much good with my life, I’ve reached further helped more people than they ever could have. Since this became my existence I’ve thrown myself into philanthropy harder than ever, and the world is so much better for me being in it. I’m not saying how I live is right, or good, but it is the position I have been put in, and a decision I have to make. I never wanted to weigh up the value of a life, to set it on the scales against my own, but that’s a choice that I am forced into. And it is one I will continue to make.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

What is the value of a life? Is it something that can be quantified, put down as numbers, good deeds, bad? And when your life your existence is at the cost of doing harm, what then? I’ve - (laughs) I’ve saved the world, the whole world. Does that give me the right to take what I need to survive? I’ve been reading nothing but these old, dry statements for so long, I - I feel weak. Like I’m fading away. Do I restrain myself, keep my appetite in check, even at the cost of my life? Or do I try to rationalize what I am, like Ms. McHugh? I find myself hating her, her callous self-deception. But am I so different? Daisy’s chosen to resist in her own way, knowing full well it might take her life in the end, Melanie too. I respect them for it, but I - I don’t know if I can follow their path.

I suppose I have a way out now. One that wouldn’t even kill me, at least, I hope not. And yet here I am still. Am I a coward? I just… what if they need me? What if.

[MELANIE KNOCKS ON DOOR]
ARCHIVIST
Oh, come in, Melanie. Funny, I was just… how are you?

MELANIE
I’m… good, actually. Uh, yeah. Yeah. I am good.

ARCHIVIST
You sound like you’ve made a decision.

MELANIE
I have, yes.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

MELANIE
Thanks for telling me, by the way. It didn’t look like it was easy for you.

ARCHIVIST
It wasn’t. I don’t think, uh… I don’t think it wants to lose anyone, but I thought you of all people deserve the option.

MELANIE
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
But I understand it’s a big thing. We’ll keep looking. Maybe there’s another way–

MELANIE
No, Jon. I’m going to do it. I’m quitting.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. You’re sure you’ve thought it through? I don’t know if we can look after you, you know? Afterwards.

MELANIE
You won’t need to. I’ve - I’ve made a few arrangements, and… (shaky breath) it’s going to be okay. Honestly. I think it is. I - I can’t be a part of this anymore and if this is the price, then I think I’m okay to pay it.

(inhale) It’s - it’s the rest of you I’m worried about.

ARCHIVIST
We’ll be fine. Always have been.

MELANIE
(scoffs lightly) Not always.

ARCHIVIST
No, I guess not.

…well, if you’re sure.

MELANIE
I won’t be around after this, but I’ll leave details in case you need to get in touch, um, but…

ARCHIVIST
I understand.

How are you planning on doing it?

MELANIE
Got, uh, got one of those awls from the book repair suppliers, up in the library? (shakily) If it can punch through books it can punch through, uh… Well it - it should do the trick. No reason to try and make it too complicated.

ARCHIVIST
I - I suppose not.

MELANIE
I’ve left a proper resignation letter on Lukas’s desk. It was quite satisfying to write, actually. Almost made me wish it was Elias. He would have hated me not serving out my two weeks notice, heh. Not sure Lukas even knows who I am… probably for the best.

ARCHIVIST
We’ll miss you.

MELANIE
(wryly) Wish I could say the same.

ARCHIVIST
(quietly) Yeah. Do you need any, uh… help?

MELANIE
(deep breath) No. I’ve got this. But if you, um… If you could…

In five minutes, I would appreciate it if you could call me an ambulance.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ????]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[RUSTLING OF PAPER. IN THE BACKGROUND, THE CLOCK TICKS.]
MARTIN
Mm? (beat) Oh.

[HE LAUGHS, GENTLY.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Yeah. (rustling paper) I was going to read one. Hate for you to miss it!

[SHORT, FORCED LAUGH, AS HE FLAPS THE STATEMENT AROUND.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
You know, I- I’ve been wondering about your batteries. Like, could I just take the batteries out each time one of you appears, and just- have an infinite supply of batteries? I mean- I won’t; don’t worry, don’t really have anything that needs them these days.

Also, I know there’s every chance that you don’t even have any, and it’s just empty, and, well… I’m not really sure that’s something I want to confirm.

Or, I open up your compartment and it’s like- meat, or maggots, or something. (slight pause, contemplative) Mm.

Emptiness or maggots. (he exhales) It’s kinda the shape of things around here, isn’t it?

Still, kind of nice to talk to some…thing? (sigh as he speaks) It’s always quiet, these days. For me, at least.

I guess I technically have the power to make it not quiet, to, to talk to people, but like- you know, I, I also have the power to clean out the fridge, and it’s still a mess. It’s not that I don’t want to clean the fridge, it’s just-

Some things are just hard.

Anyway. I know he’s been listening to the tapes, so I guess that’ll have to do.

I think I still care that he hears my voice. It’s hard to tell, sometimes. How much do I actually care, and how much is just feeling that I should care?

I’m on my own so much these days, I…

Just wish I didn’t like it so much.

I mean, if you’ve got any thoughts, I’d love to hear them.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Hmm?

[SILENCE, BUT FOR THE CLOCK.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
No. Didn’t think so. (long inhale) That’s not what you’re here for, is it? (exhale-sigh) No. You want this.

[HE HOLDS UP THE STATEMENT.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Fine. (heavy inhale-exhale) Fine. Have it your way.

[HE SOUNDS RESIGNED, LIKE HE WAS HOPING FOR SOME INSIGHT DURING THIS ‘CONVERSATION’ THAT NEVER CAME.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
As usual. (pause) Martin Blackwood, assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute, recording statement #0090401. Statement of Adelard Dekker, taken from a letter to Gertrude Robinson, dated 4th of January, 2009.

Statement begins.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
(inhale) Gertrude. I wanted your opinion on an encounter I’ve had described to me, and given your recent dealing with Viscera, I would very much value your input.

Good job on that, by the way. I’m sure the gnostic temple was a great loss culturally speaking, but I can’t help but admire your directness when it comes to this sort of thing. I often find myself locked in a sense of esoteric paralysis on how to proceed.

Still. God grant me clarity to act when I need it.

Anyway, I was following up on a young man who had apparently had a nasty experience whilst exploring the ruins of the Bright Lake amusement park in Colorado.

You will forgive me if I withhold his name, as I have all the verification I need to be sure he’s telling the truth, and I find it hard to believe any followup you would be interested in doing would be beneficial for him. He’s earned his anonymity.

Bright Lake lies to the north of White River National Forest, just off the I-70. It was built in the sixties, around a large artificial lake that was apparently formed following a mining accident that had collapsed a significant portion of the surrounding landscape.

It was, from what I can tell from a collection of photos taken in 1983, a largely unremarkable amusement park. A medium sized wooden roller coaster, a ferris wheel, a Hall of Mirrors, and a wide avenue of games and carnival booths, as well as a fleet of paddle boats that allowed you to go out into the lake that gave the place its name.

By the nineties, it was struggling. By the turn of the millenium, it was out of business, closing its gates for the last time in October 1999.

From what I understand, there have been several plans to rebuild it or repurpose the land in the decades since, but none have amounted to more than surveyors pocketing fees and many slabs of planning documentation tucked away in filing cabinets.

It’s a little too out-of-the-way to be a common destination for teenage delinquency, but has become, I’m told, quite popular with what can be described as ‘rural urban exploration groups.’

Apparently, the lack of, well, actual urban areas to explore means that locations such as this become quite a draw for those in the area with an interest in abandoned places. And of course, its rather forbidding appearance after ten years of decay has led quite a few ghost hunters out that way, as well, though I’m not aware of any specific tragedies or stories about it that would give them much to go on.

My young friend was specifically intending to use it as the site of a party they were planning to throw. Based on his description, I would have called it a rave… but when I said so, he looked at me like I didn’t understand what he was talking about.

In any case, there was going to be a lot of dancing and movement, so he decided to scout ahead in order to see how structurally sound the place still was.

He was planning to mark out those buildings and areas that should be avoided, and which should be sufficiently stable to support a crowd of intoxicated party-goers.

I pressed him on how scary it had been, what fear he might have felt approaching it, but whilst he’d admit it was “creepy as hell,” that was apparently the point, and he said he didn’t feel any apprehension when he got there.

I suspect his machismo is stopping him admitting it, but there wasn’t much I could do to get him to open up.

He was very interested in the Hall of Mirrors. According to him, if it was still in good shape, it would have been an amazing place to put on a light show, and have his guests dance their way through the maze.

Sounds like a good way to get injured to me, but apparently I used the word ‘rave’ wrong, so what do I know?

Anyway, that was his first stop after checking that the wooden floor of the main avenue was still solid, which it was, and that the central square would be able to take the weight of the heavy speakers, which it could. Then, he headed to the Hall of Mirrors.

A lot of the actual mirrors themselves were cracked or broken, making the maze part of the funhouse easy to navigate, but he reckoned if he took the time to sweep up the broken glass, it would still be serviceable.

Then he came to a long, straight room that contained the warped mirrors. Now, to you and I, the undamaged pristine state of these would have a warning sign. The fact that there was no dust on them at all, even after ten years of neglect, would have rang all sorts of alarm bells.

But I’m trying to remind myself that not everyone is as attuned to these signs as we are, and to my young trespasser friend, apparently there was nothing in that to worry him at all. In fact, he was excited to see them in such a good shape.

I feel a little guilty. I actually laughed when he said that.

It was the third mirror that did it. The one that expanded him into a short, squat reflection caused no problems. Neither did the one that bent him out of shape. But the third mirror, the one that squeezed him, made him thin and gaunt, that was the one which took him.

He outright refused to tell me how exactly he was pulled through it, but from the look in his eyes I have no doubt it was a powerfully unpleasant experience, so much so, that he claims to have lost consciousness.

He awoke to bright lights, and the sound of machines whirring, cut through with ringing bells and the sound of people shouting. The lights in the Hall of Mirrors were on, and it was clear that he was no longer in the old amusement park, seeing the place was changed from how he recalled it in the dark.

Everything seemed more or less maintained, with paint that was old and starting to peel, but a long way from the bare, rotten wood it had been before. The only thing in worse condition were the mirrors themselves, the frames of which were now pocked with tiny, irregular indentations all the way round.

It would be some time before the idea would come to him that they were teeth marks.

Our witness staggered to his feet and quietly made his way towards the door of the funhouse, hanging off the side, so as to look out without being seen.

The park was completely changed, now seemingly full of life. There were people striding down the main avenue, past the well-lit booths trying to entice them with coconut throws and hoop games. The rollercoaster rattled along in the background, the faint screams of its riders drifting over the crowds below. For a few seconds it seemed almost legitimately joyful.

But as he watched, a certain wrongness began to become clear. Meaningless details, if they were confined to a single punter, but all the park-goers seemed the same.

The first was how baggy their clothes were. It almost seemed as though everyone was wearing some sort of oversized novelty tshirt. But it was the same with the shirts, jackets, dresses- until it became apparent that it was not the clothes that were too big, but the wearers who were too small.

Their limbs were painfully thin to look at, their flesh stretched tightly over jutting bones, and the fabric hung off them like great flaps of skin. The hair on each head was thin, almost wispy, often missing in great chunks, and their eyes were sunken so hollow that from a distance they seemed empty.

This is when our unfortunate interloper began to feel the first stirrings of fear.

He began to move, slowly and quietly, outside, his utter bafflement at what was happening briefly overpowering his mounting dread. It wasn’t just a few of them. Everyone in the park was so emaciated that they barely seemed human- but they seemed to be acting normally, at least for the moment.

He moved slowly through the shadows of the rickety wooden structures, watching them pass, until his eyes fell upon the coconut shy.

‘WIN BREAD,’ the sign announced in bold colors, but a huge black cross had been struck through it, and from this distance the prize bucket seemed empty.

Even so, a woman stood there, hurling a well-worn leather ball at the hairy targets in the back. As she knocked one from its perch, her face contorted into a grimace of joy, and the wizened carnie hobbled over to one of the buckets and handed her a tiny bone.

Without hesitation, she snapped it cleanly in half and started desperately gnawing at the broken end, trying to reach whatever scant marrow might have remained inside.

Our lost young friend felt his stomach turn. He told me he was a good fifteen feet away, but could still hear the sounds of her desperate hunger over the rides all around.

The woman began to examine the bone in her hand closely, then turned and began railing at the carnie, accusing him of cheating her, of lying about the prizes.

This was all too much for our witness, who had decided that whatever was going on in this place, he wanted no part of it. But as he turned to look for a way out, there was a sound that cut through the background din of the park: It was a scream from the roller coaster, but not the joyful cry of adrenaline and mock terror, but a dreadful, piercing wail, flying through the air.

It seemed one of the riders, unable to properly benefit from the safety bar, had been thrown from the height of a loop, and was sailing through the air, landing on the unforgiving ground of the main avenue with a horrendous crunch.

A sudden silence fell over the place. The rides still whirred and rang and jangled, but every person there had gone completely still, their eyes locked on the mangled mess of broken limbs and shattered bone.

It was the carnie that went first, vaulting over the side of the coconut shy with an unexpected agility. Then it was as if a dam had broken, and every half-wasted figure descended on the twisted corpse. Our interloper had to look away, or risk being sick at the sight of so many spindly bodies swarming, biting, rotten teeth and swollen gums tearing at the still-twitching body of the unfortunate soul from the roller coaster.

When he told me of the hunger he saw in their eyes, his legs were shaking so badly, he had to turn away.

His eyes fell instead on the coconut shy, and he finally got a good look at what were propped up as targets.

What stared back at him certainly had hair, but they most definitely were not coconuts.

He staggered backwards as a shock passed through him, colliding with a nearby trash can and sending it clattering to the floor. He tried to regain his footing, but something underneath him rolled away, and he slipped, falling on top of the heap of bones from the overturned garbage.

They were too large to be animal bones, he was sure of it, and every one of them had been picked clean and cracked open, the marrow sucked from them to leave nothing but dry, white fragments.

Pulling himself painfully to his feet, he glanced back at the crowd, and saw that several of them on the edge, those that had no hopes of reaching the corpse, had clearly heard the commotion, and were starting to walk warily towards him.

He tells me he was suddenly very aware of just how much flesh was on his body.

He turned, and ran back into the funhouse.

I do envy you your gifts sometimes, Gertrude. His account of their pursuit through the mirror-maze was honestly so disjoint that I was unable to follow it. Even after he tried to take me through it two, or even three times.

Without the Eye’s clarifying influence, panic can make details… difficult to remember.

They shouted at him, certainly, but his stark terror appears to have robbed him of the memory of their words.

Judging by the bite marks on his wrist, I think it’s safe to assume that one of them caught him, at least for a moment, but he claims he can remember nothing of the sort.

I can at least say for certain that he managed to lose his pursuers long enough to return to the warped mirrors. He then took what I consider to be his only sensible action in the entire affair: Rather than running straight to the mirror which distorted him into a thin, angular figure, he took a moment to look into each one, and one of them showed no reflection at all.

His next action of running full-pelt into it was perhaps less inspired, but it does seem to have been effective, since when he regained consciousness, covered in blood and broken glass, he was once again in the silent darkness of the abandoned Bright Lake amusement park he had made the unwise decision to break into.

I don’t believe the party ever happened, which is almost certainly for the best.

So? What are your thoughts. I’m keen to hear your own interpretation of this one. My first assumption would have been the Flesh, based on the cannibalism and strangeness of the bodies involved, but- something about this idea of some sort of famine world, its location within a man-made ruin, the whole… societal aspect of it- I’d be inclined to chalk this up as a genuine Extinction manifestation.

But I don’t know. Am I drawing wild conclusions, trying to fit the account into my own preconceptions? Keen to know your feelings on the matter.

Oh. One more thing: If you do try to follow up with my source- and I know you have your own ways of finding him, should you wish- please be careful.

He told me, near the end, that he had recently been worried he’s being followed. He keeps catching glimpses of a thin figure in the distance, or disappearing around a corner, and I can’t quite get past the detail that there was no reflection at all in the mirror he used to return.

If my suspicions are correct, there’s little either of us can do for him- but do take care, if you make contact.

MARTIN
Statement ends.

[HE FLIPS THE PAPER OVER, SIGHS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Another day, another Extinction scare. The more things change, I guess.

[HE SIGHS AGAIN, LONGER THIS TIME. WHEN HE PICKS BACK UP, A FAMILIAR SQUEAKY STATIC BEGINS TO FADE IN, QUICKLY.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I just wish Peter would finally get round to telling me what we’re going to do about it.

PETER
Then I have good news for you!

[MARTIN SUCKS IN A HARD BREATH, AND WE HEAR WHAT SOUNDS LIKE HIS CHAIR SCRAPING BACKWARDS IN ALARM.]
MARTIN
(admonishing, annoyed) Peter, we have talked about this!

PETER
In my defense, it is still quite funny.

[MARTIN TAKES AN ANNOYED BREATH TO KEEP HIS COOL.]
MARTIN
So. What’s the news?

PETER
I think we’re finally ready!

MARTIN
(through gritted teeth) Great. Does that mean I finally get to know what we’re ready for?

PETER
Yes! Well- for the most part. To a certain degree, you really need to see it for yourself.

MARTIN
Peter.

PETER
You know the tunnels under the Institute?

MARTIN
Y- Yes, I remember.

PETER
Well, there’s something at the center, a- let’s call it a device. Now, our biggest problem with the Extinction is a lack of information. We know it’s emerging, but we don’t know how, or where.

MARTIN
And this… de…vice will help?

PETER
Yes.

MARTIN
And I’m going to be the one to use it for you.

PETER
I very much hope so. (brief pause) If you need more time…

MARTIN
I don’t.

PETER
Good, because I was going to say there probably isn’t any.

MARTIN
If it’s been down there all this time, how come we haven’t found it? Jon explored the tunnels pretty thoroughly, and Leitner was down there a lot.

PETER
It’s very difficult to reach if you don’t know exactly where you’re going.

MARTIN
And you do?

PETER
I will. By tomorrow, I should have my hands on a map, and then- we go.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
(more subdued) Right. (beat) Will I be coming back?

PETER
You’re not going to die, if that’s what you’re asking, but- no. If all goes well, you won’t be.

[MARTIN TAKES A LONG INHALE, THEN EXHALES.]
PETER
How does that make you feel?

[THE STATIC IN THE BACKGROUND ADOPTS A BIT MORE BASS THAN USUAL, AND THE HIGH-PITCHED SCREAM-LIKE TONES INCREASE IN VOLUME AS WELL.]
MARTIN
Nothing. (short laugh) Nothing at all.

PETER
Excellent. I’m so proud of you, Martin.

MARTIN
I really don’t care.

PETER
Perfect.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ????]
[TAPE CLICKS ON. THE RECORDED CONVERSATION BETWEEN MARTIN AND PETER FROM MAG156 PLAYS. THE ARCHIVIST’S AGITATED BREATHING CAN BE HEARD IN THE BACKGROUND.]
MARTIN
Will I be coming back?

PETER
You’re not going to die, if that’s what you’re asking, but- no. If all goes well, you won’t be.

[MARTIN TAKES A LONG INHALE, THEN EXHALES.]
PETER
How does that make you feel?

MARTIN
Nothing. (short laugh) Nothing at all.

PETER
Excellent. I’m so proud of you, Martin.

MARTIN
I really don’t care.

PETER
Perfect.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
ARCHIVIST
This tape was left on my desk. I don’t know by who, but to my mind, there are three options. Martin has left it here to let me know that whatever the situation is with Peter Lukas, it is entering his final act and he needs my help. Alternatively, Peter may have left here to… Goad me into action? Or just to gloat, to highlight my helplessness at everything. (sighs) Or Annabelle Cane is trying to manipulate me into thinking it’s one of the other scenarios. Previously, the spiders have made their presence clear when they’ve sent me… hints… but I can’t take that for granted.

I don’t know what to do.

There’s a statement with it. It looks pretty recent. (hm) First time in a while I’ve been wary of reading one. Still, I guess… (deep breath)

Statement of Alelard Dekker, regarding a potential pandemic originating in the town of Klanxbüll, Germany. Original statement given 14th August 2013. audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
You must forgive me, Gertrude, for any typing and spelling errors that might be in this message. My hands are shaking quite badly and my fingers… aren’t what they were. Even so, just knowing where this is going, this statement… I can feel the eye’s power on me be it ever so slight steadying me. Helping the words flow.

[A FAINT, DISTORTED BUZZING SOUND RISES IN THE BACKGROUND.]
Is it strange that here, now, that seems almost a comfort? This is the last time you will hear from me. You must trust me on that and not come looking. Not that you would, I know you’re too smart for sentimentality, especially after what I have to tell you, but I feel it worth saying nonetheless. Perhaps I’m simply prevaricating. Trying to cling on to a few more precious minutes of life. But that’s not me. I know what awaits me, and I must have no hesitation in going to my reward. I know you’ve never had much patience for my faith, but perhaps it will provide you some small peace knowing I face my death gladly, knowing I have done my duty before God.

I have spoken to you before of Christabel, my contact within the ECDC. She had a run-in with the crawling rot some decades ago and has since then kept me up to date with any incidents they have encountered which display unusual properties. Well, she alerted me to what was internally believed to be a potential pandemic originating in the small town of Klanxbüll on the German Danish border. From what I understand it was a perfectly pleasant small town, remarkable mainly for a rail line running out to a large island off the mainland, but as it was it had been completely quarantined. Christabel reported that the disease seemed to be artificial or man-made in origin and her colleagues were keen to label it as a bioweapon but its behavior didn’t follow any normal patterns or vectors. Combined with its extremely disturbing symptoms, which caused the skin and muscles to become loose and malleable until they sloughed completely off the body, leaving only a skeleton and organs… well, she was certain that it was the product of an otherworldly evil and called me. I’ve spoken before about how keenly I’ve watched news of possible pandemics, which is where I suspect the Extinction may pull away from the Corruption during its emergence. This alongside the possibility of the disease being man-made – though I am certain no human had anything to do with it – well, it was more than enough to draw me in.

I had no interest in compromising Christabel’s position, so I made my own preparations for entry, borrowing a hazmat suit from one of the tents erected around the perimeter. I always despised trying to move in those things, but it seems they’ve made some real improvements in them over the last 15 years, so I was able to stay relatively quiet as I talked my way past the cordon and headed into infected Klanxbüll. I’m certainly glad this happened south of the border with Denmark, as my German is passable compared to my non-existent Danish. Once inside the town, it became rapidly apparent how bad the situation truly was. You and I, Gertrude, have seen more visions of Hell than anyone has a right to while living, but this was something else entirely.

Thin trails of blood and skin crisscrossed to the streets, and the walls and windows of nearby buildings were coated in a fine sheen of discarded gore. It didn’t take me long to find my first victim wrapped around a lamppost. He had clearly tried to lean on it for support in his distress, but his flesh had begun to spread and fuse over it in thick, ropey tendrils. His bones were almost bare to the elements. But it was then that I saw the thing that to my mind is perhaps the worst of it. His heart was exposed. It was beating fast, so fast, despite the awful green decay that seemed to be eating at it. I knew at that moment there was nothing that could be done to save the town, but I could perhaps identify the cause. And identify it I did. I began by checking houses, looking for anything that might have been an unusual artifact or one of those dreadful books. Few doors were locked and many seemed to be swinging open in the breeze that I was deeply thankful I could not smell. Still for all the quaint homes with their slanted roofs that I combed through, I found nothing that might qualify as an origin for the small town’s gruesome demise. But neither did I find many other victims. There were a few. A woman melted into her now crimson bed. An old man whose bright eyes still stared out of his skull, watching the television, though the rest of him lay pooled on the floor. And in all of them the frantic beating of their decomposing hearts. The state of these homes, however, would seem to indicate that many had begun to develop symptoms while still inside. Countertops in otherwise empty houses would be coated with blood, wooden floorboards peppered with flecks of gristle. Yet of these individuals there seemed to be no obvious sign except a line of viscera leading towards the front door.

It was then I realized that I had been following the trails entirely the wrong way. They were not people returning home to die the sick were pulling themselves out of their houses, crawling, dragging themselves towards some other place, leaving bits behind on the rough pavement as they did so. So I began to walk, slowly, both because of my bulky suit and the rising sense of dread in my stomach. I wondered, Gertrude, whether you are truly as fearless as you seem, or if you are simply a master of disguising your terror. I suppose I’ll never have a chance to find out. I rather hope it was the former. However much I disagree with some of your methods, it feels good to believe there are people in this world who can stare down the devil without flinching. I found the source of this sickness in the parkplatz opposite the train station. The cars had been pushed to the side, clearly at great cost to the bodies of those that pushed them, and in the center was a figure from whom the rot clearly flowed.

He was sat upon a most dreadful throne, formed from a dozen, two dozen bodies mixed together like putty. Eyes staring out like horror-stricken stars twinkling in the night, and their hearts beating for all. To see a moaning came from that awful seat. Voices trying to scream through things that weren’t their throat. And it is a sound I shall be glad to leave behind me when I go to my rest. I will confess to being perversely disappointed when I saw the figure sat upon it – no pale spectre in a lab coat, or twisted golem of petri dishes and test tubes. No, he was lanky, wearing an ill-fitting brown suit and a smile. I’d never previously had the misfortune to meet him, but I knew the description well enough to recognize Jon Amherst. So it seemed it was not the Extinction as I had anticipated, but simply a new and awful strain of Corruption. Still, it was not something I felt I could leave to run its course unopposed.

At first I was struck almost with despair, having nothing to hand with which I might attempt a confrontation with this creature, but upon retreat in some ways and considering my options, I realized I actually had almost the exact resources to hand that I might need. A few minutes spent scouting the surrounding streets even revealed a small construction site almost precisely suited to my requirements. I returned to the cordon and took what I needed a stretcher, as many quarantine sleeves as I could carry, and a syringe. The medical staff appeared to have retreated to the large tent that served as their base of operations, and if anyone noticed me they didn’t interfere. I loaded the gear into a wheelbarrow I had taken from the building site along with a thick metal chain, and began to head back towards the parkplatz, stopping only to fill the syringe from a can of garden pesticide I had noticed during my earlier sweep of the houses. Finally I revealed myself. He approached me coyly, clearly believing me to be a foolish or lost ECDC medic. Perhaps he assumed I was frozen in terror at the sight of his work, and luckily my hazmat suit did much to hide my expression.

He walked up to me with a smile so wide it tore the edges of his mouth, leaking a sick green liquid from the edges, and reached a hand out for my mask. It was then I gripped his hand and plunged the syringe into his spongy flesh, and pumped him full of the chemical cocktail. He staggered back, ripping the needle from my hand, and fell to the floor shaking I had no illusions of poison being sufficient to destroy an avatar of Filth, though from what I knew of his affinity to insects I hoped it would be at least temporarily effective. Regardless, I had to work fast I dragged him to the stretch run strapped him down wrestling against his thrashing spasms. Even through the hazmat suit I could feel the diseased heat of his skin.

I wrapped him round with the chain which would I hoped hold him fast as I pulled the plastic over the stretcher in layer after layer until I could barely see him through the thick clouded material. I hadn’t brought any of the supports with me, so in the end it looked less like the well-constructed tube of a quarantine stretcher and more like a lumpy vinyl sack. Still, it was sealed, and that was enough for my purposes. I dragged the thing over to the building site and with the last of my strength threw him into the hole that had been left. By this point, the concrete truck I’d turned on earlier had been mixing for some time, and it was a simple matter to open the pump and pour the contents of its hopper down on top of him. How much he had recovered by this time I couldn’t say for sure, but he certainly moved around plenty as that thick gray sludge began to cover him.

I can’t deny some pride in my solution, Gertrude. In all our discussions of how to contain a being that we could not destroy, I’m not sure we have a hit on a method quite so neat. I am no builder, but by the end I think you would have been hard-pressed to criticize how well that concrete had been laid and Amherst for feet beneath it and now the part of my tale you must have anticipated from the beginning. During the altercation, the adrenaline had kept me from noticing the tear that Amherst had made in my hazmat suit while I wrestled him onto the stretcher, but as I sat to savor my victory it became clear that a great cut on my leg had gone clean through the material. There was no way that I was not infected, and indeed over these last few hours, I have felt the sickness working on me. My pace is sluggish and I can feel my skin begin to loosen. My heart is beating so fast it shakes my whole body. But I shall not wait for it to putrefy as the rot overtakes me. I have dragged those other afflicted I could find into the parkplatz, laid them at the feet of that appalling thrown taking the last gifts of that generous construction site a dozen cans of petrol. I will sit upon that seat and release these poor souls from their suffering, and hopefully make things simpler for the ECDC cleanup crews. But it did not seem quite right to leave without letting you know what happened, and Herr Becker was kind enough to succumb to the sickness without signing out of his computer, so.

Perhaps you were right about the Extinction. I’ve been hunting it for decades now and while I have seen evidence of its influence in other powers, I have never found anything to genuinely prove its emergence as a true power of its own. Perhaps it is an existential fear that flows through the others like a vein of ore, or perhaps the birth of such things is longer and more complicated than I believed. For all that, though, I cannot regret at the time I have spent seeking it. I have done my duty, and none may ask more of me. I am proud of the work we have done, and it has been an honor to do it alongside you.

Goodbye, Gertrude. May find your rest when no shadows are passed, and no eyes may see you slumber.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

This, uh… this changes things. I - I think. if Martin found this, read it already, then perhaps he’s having second thoughts about - about Peter and the Extinction. this - this could be a cry for help, his way of asking me to follow him without Peter knowing, or… (sighs) or what? I don’t understand. Martin’s been quite clear he doesn’t want my help. am I just hearing what I want to hear? I need a second opinion, but… Basira and Daisy are… out… somewhere. they left in a hurry and didn’t tell me why, now their phones are going to voicemail. maybe they’re just on the underground, and probably – that doesn’t help me now.

I need someone I can trust.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY.]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
GEORGIE
No, Jon, you’ve done enough!

ARCHIVIST
I just need to talk to–

GEORGIE
What don’t you understand? She mutilated herself to get out of that place, and there is absolutely no way I’m letting you involve her again.

ARCHIVIST
Look, is she here or not? She - she said she was staying with you.

GEORGIE
Yes, she’s here.

ARCHIVIST
Really? Where’s all her stuff?

GEORGIE
Bedroom. Why?

ARCHIVIST
No, I just…

[TELLTALE STATIC CRACKLING OF THE EYE SOUNDS AS JON FITS THE PIECES TOGETHER.]
Oh. Oh I’m sorry, I didn’t - I didn’t realize you were to - together.

GEORGIE
That’s cuz it’s none of your business. Now leave.

ARCHIVIST
Please, Georgie, it’s not – I just need to know I’m not overreacting to something. I need an outside perspective.

GEORGIE
Sure, well, here’s one. Get out of my flat.

[JON’S RESPONSE IS CUT OFF BY A DOOR OPENING.]
MELANIE
(softly) Oh – what’s go… what’s going on? You - you woke the Admiral.

GEORGIE
(reassuring) Hey, hey, easy. It’s - it’s all right, he was just leaving.

ARCHIVIST
Melanie, I…

MELANIE
(surprised) Jon?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. It’s me.

GEORGIE
It’s all right, Melanie.

[THE ADMIRAL CAN BE HEARD PURRING SOFTLY IN THE BACKGROUND.]
Jon, leave.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, I just… it’s Martin.

MELANIE
Jon… don’t. Please.

ARCHIVIST
No, you’re right, I’m sorry. You alright?

MELANIE
Yes. I’m… I’m actually doing okay.

ARCHIVIST
That’s good.

MELANIE
My therapist isn’t happy about it, you know. Unsurprisingly. Tried to have me put away, but they, um… they let me come here. It’s - it’s been good for me though I feel alright. I’m - I’m not scared anymore.

GEORGIE
Melanie, you don’t have to do this.

MELANIE
It’s - it’s okay. He’s welcome… as a friend. But that’s it.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

MELANIE
But you’re not after a friend, are you, Jon?

ARCHIVIST
(desperately) I need an ally.

MELANIE
Then I can’t help you.

ARCHIVIST
…I suppose not.

[THE ADMIRAL MEOWS.]

GEORGIE
Okay. You’re done?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

GEORGIE
Come on, Melanie. Let’s get you back to bed.

ARCHIVIST
Look after yourself. Both of you.

MELANIE
You too. Good luck, I guess.

[DOOR SWINGS SHUT]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[HEAVY KNOCKING ON A DOOR. IT SWINGS OPEN.]
ARCHIVIST
Helen.

HELEN
Jonathan.

ARCHIVIST
I need – you said before you knew the tunnels, right? that you’d been a… part of them?

HELEN
Not my exact words, but close enough.

ARCHIVIST
I need to know what’s in there. What’s at the center? (urgently) It - it’s important, Martin – I need to know.

HELEN
(cheerfully) That’s a shame, because I’m afraid I’m not going to tell you!

ARCHIVIST
(aghast) What? Why not?

HELEN
Because I have a good enough sense of what’s going on to know that it will be much more fun without my involvement! (begins laughing)

ARCHIVIST
What? You - you said you were going to help!

HELEN
I am.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t have time for this. What is at the cen–

[A SOUND LIKE A BLADE BEING DRAWN AS THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS CHOKING. A SHARP, UNSETTLING TONE BEGINS PLAYING IN THE BACKGROUND.]
HELEN
No. We’re not playing your game. Now don’t forget how sharp I can be, Archivist. Perhaps here now you’re powerful enough to learn what you want from me, but if you try, I promise you I will resist. And only one of us is going to survive the attempt.

[THE BLADE WITHDRAWS.]
ARCHIVIST
(out of breath) Fine. can you take me there? To the center?

HELEN
I honestly don’t know. But I’m not inclined to risk it.

ARCHIVIST
Damn you!

HELEN
Run home, Jon. Find a victim on the way. Chaos is coming and I think you’d best be ready.

ARCHIVIST
Just tell me what’s going on. Please.

HELEN
(gleefully) Bad things, Archivist. Really bad things.

[HELEN’S LAUGHS ECHO AS HER DOOR SWINGS SHUT.]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE: THE TUNNELS]
[TAPE CLICKS ON. THE SOUND OF PETER’S STATIC IS AUDIBLE IN THE BACKGROUND ALONG WITH SLOW, HEAVY FOOTSTEPS. MARTIN MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND.]
PETER
(pleasantly) Is everything alright, Martin?

MARTIN
It’s fine. Don’t particularly like it down here.

PETER
Ah, yes, of course. Hard to trust the doors, I imagine.

MARTIN
(wry chuckle) Yeah, well, everyone else seems to these days, so…

PETER
But she’s still the same corridors, I suppose. I’m sure… what was his name… Tim! Tim w–

MARTIN
(interrupting) I would really. Rather not talk about it, Peter.

PETER
Very well. This way.

[A FEW SECONDS OF SILENCE AND FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN
Are you sure about that map? I’m pretty certain the tunnels change.

PETER
Oh, don’t worry about that. Ink’s practically still wet. Not to mention, if they do change, well… I happen to have something that will change them back.

[RUSTLING]
MARTIN
That’s a Leitner.

PETER
It is!

MARTIN
And the, um… the blood on it?

PETER
(cheerfully) That’s Leitner too!

MARTIN
(apprehensively) …Riiight.

PETER
Do you want to see how it works?

MARTIN
No, no, I’d really rather you didn’t –

PETER
No, I insist! Watch.

[A FEW SECONDS OF SILENCE AS NOTHING HAPPENS.]
MARTIN
(wryly sarcastic) Very impressive.

PETER
I’m reading. Shush.

[MORE SILENCE, THEN FAINT FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN
Peter. Peter, there’s a… Peter, I think there’s something in there.

PETER
Mm-hmm. I’d stay quiet if I were you.

[A LOUD, SCRAPING SOUND GROWS IN VOLUME, ALONG WITH AGITATED, INHUMAN NOISES, BEFORE NOT-SASHA ENTERS WITH A DISTORTED SCREAM. IT LETS OUT A FEW RAGGED GASPS.]
NOT-SASHA
So you finally decided to let me out, Jon? (calling) Jooooon?

Who’s there?

[MARTIN’S TERRIFIED BREATHING CAN BE HEARD.]
Who let me out?

Don’t be shy… I just want to say thank you.

…alright, have it your way. Now if you’ll excuse me… I have some unfinished business.

[IT LETS OUT A CACKLING LAUGH AS ITS VOICE FADES.]
[MARTIN LETS OUT A SHAKY BREATH.]
MARTIN
That- that - that was. Um–

PETER
Yes!

MARTIN
And it’s going to -

PETER
Make sure everyone is too busy to follow us. They’ll be fine… probably.

You could still go help them. If you insist.

[SEVERAL SECONDS OF SILENCE, MARTIN LETS OUT A RESIGNED INHALE.]
PETER
(satisfied) Very good. Come on.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Gone how?

DAISY
Just walked, out as far as we can tell.

BASIRA
A couple of guards on duty vanished too.

ARCHIVIST
(agitated) Vanished. How?!

BASIRA
Just left. Best we can tell, he had some dirt on them.

DAISY
Old friend at the prison let us know.

ARCHIVIST
What, and no one thought of that?

BASIRA
Asshole could have left at any time, but he just sat there laughing at us.

ARCHIVIST
No, no, this - this can’t be a coincidence.

BASIRA
Coincidence with what?

ARCHIVIST
Martin, or someone, left me a tape. Him and Peter Lukas are looking for something down in the tunnels.

BASIRA
Do you know what?

ARCHIVIST
No. He called it a device.

DAISY
When?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I don’t - I mean… n-now? I guess? They could - it can’t be a coincidence that this is when Elias chooses to make a break for it.

BASIRA
You think he’s coming here?

ARCHIVIST
You don’t?

DAISY
Let’s go.

ARCHIVIST
(sighs) I’ll get the key.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[MORE CLANGING FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN
What is this place?

PETER
The panopticon of Millbank prison. Not quite as Smirke originally conceived it, of course; Jonah Magnus made certain… adjustments.

MARTIN
And it’s been down here the whole time?

PETER
Why’d you think this was chosen as the Institute’s location when the prison closed? It’s a significant site of power for the Beholding. From the tower in the center of this room, you can see everything.

MARTIN
But there’s nothing in the cells.

PETER
I don’t mean the cells, Martin! I mean everything. Come on. Mind your step, this comes from an era before safety rails.

MARTIN
I don’t understand. Why are we here?

PETER
It’s quite simple, really. I want to use the powers of this place to learn about the Extinction - what it’s doing, where it’s manifesting. Then we can stop it.

MARTIN
And you need me for this?

PETER
Correct! Without a connection to the Eye, any attempt to use it would likely end very messily indeed. But thankfully it just so happens that you hold such a connection.

MARTIN
So that’s it. Both Lonely and Watching.

PETER
You must admit you’re the perfect candidate.

MARTIN
I suppose I am.

PETER
There is, of course, just one other complication? You’ll have to dispose of the current occupant.

MARTIN
Current…

[MARTIN SEES SOMETHING AND STOPS.]
(tense) Who is that?

PETER
Jonah Magnus! His body at least. Sitting here, watching. Binding it all together, growing ever older. If you want to take his place, well…

MARTIN
I’ll need to kill him.

PETER
Yes. Don’t worry, though, I brought a knife.

[THE SOUND OF ROLLING, SLIDING STONE.]
MARTIN
(shaky breath) Where are his eyes?

ELIAS
Exactly where they’ve always been, Martin.

[MARTIN LETS OUT A TREMBLING GASP.]
Watching over my Institute.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
BASIRA
And you’re sure?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I’m sure it wasn’t here before!

BASIRA
It’s just that there’s a lot of tapes around.

ARCHIVIST
And I don’t keep any of them with the key to the tunnels. It’s been left for me.

DAISY
And it says ‘play me’. Kind of suspicious.

BASIRA
So Elias left it.

ARCHIVIST
Or Martin, or Peter, or Annabelle!

BASIRA
Fine. Whatever. Could be a distraction.

ARCHIVIST
Only one way to find out.

BASIRA
We don’t have time for this.

DAISY
We don’t know that. We’ve no idea what sort of time frame we’re on. I say play it.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[THE SOUND OF SLOSHING LIQUID. A DOOR SWINGS OPEN.]
ELIAS (JONAH)
Gertrude.

GERTRUDE
(under her breath) Damn.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Did you really think I wouldn’t notice?

GERTRUDE
I’d rather hoped you’d still be hampered with all the Dark’s business. It’s their ‘Grand Eclipse’ at the moment, isn’t it?

ELIAS (JONAH)
But I think we’ve both come to the same conclusion about that. That’s why you’re here.

GERTRUDE
Yes. Shame, really. I used to be able to torch a building in half the time. Age catches us all. (contemptuously) Well, almost all of us, Elias.

ELIAS (JONAH)
You were the one so… insistent on staying human.

GERTRUDE
And no doubt that makes my death a lot less complicated.

ELIAS (JONAH)
What exactly were you hoping to achieve here? Why not come at me directly instead of burning everything first?

GERTRUDE
I was rather hoping the fire would occupy you while I did just that.

ELIAS (JONAH)
I see.

How long have you known?

GERTRUDE
About your body? Not long after you took your new host and we had our little… chat. It wasn’t exactly a huge leap to the panopticon after that. The hard part was figuring out how to actually reach it. Took me the better part of a decade.

ELIAS (JONAH)
So you burn the place down, use it as cover to reach my body, and then we die together. How poetic. Doesn’t seem like your style at all.

GERTRUDE
I wasn’t actually planning on dying.

ELIAS (JONAH)
And how exactly were you planning on achieving that while you’re still bound to the… ha. Oh, I see. Very clever. (amused smirk) I thought Eric was the only one to figure that little morsel out.

GERTRUDE
Knowledge has a way of surviving. You of all people should know that.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Quite. It was a good plan, actually. If you hadn’t been so complacent about me keeping an eye out down here, probably would have worked. (sarcastic) Gertrude’s grand retirement.

GERTRUDE
It still might.

[SOUND OF FLINT AND STEEL]
Just needs a little spark, and -

[A GUN COCKS.]
I see. So you’re finally getting your hands dirty? I must really have caught you off guard.

ELIAS (JONAH)
I suppose we both got a little complacent. Fifty years is a long time. End of an era.

GERTRUDE
I’m not really in the mood for nostalgia, Elias. You might have noticed I’m rather busy so either shoot me or -

[A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT. GERTRUDE GASPS AND COLLAPSES.]
GERTRUDE
(gasping) Well… there it is. Thought it would hurt more.

ELIAS
(sighs) Pity.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
BASIRA
Right, so what does that tell us?

Jon? Jon?

ARCHIVIST
Y-yes, sorry, right. Just, uh… uh, the panopticon. It’s the, um-

BASIRA
The design of Milbank prison, based on an all-seeing watchtower. I know. I did the reading.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
You think that’s the device?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. And I’d wager that Elias’ body -

BASIRA
Gotta be Jonah Magnus, right?

ARCHIVIST
I’d say so.

BASIRA
(sigh) And he’s been body hopping like whatever was in Reynor.

ARCHIVIST
So is he going to help Peter or stop him?

BASIRA
Lukas is planning to take over the panopticon. Can’t imagine he wants that to happen.

ARCHIVIST
But Elias put him in charge. That doesn’t make any- what… Daisy are you-?

BASIRA
Shh!

[HEAVY, UNEVEN FOOTSTEPS. DISTANT FEMALE SCREAMS CAN BE HEARD.]
ARCHIVIST
Oh, no.

BASIRA
Stay here, both of you. I’ll check it out.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
PETER
What are you doing here, Elias?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, you needn’t worry.

PETER
Two against one?

ELIAS (JONAH)
I couldn’t stop you if I wanted to. I just wanted to be here at the end. Can a man not watch his own death?

MARTIN
What, wh- what? What? How are you even here?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Well-

PETER
Don’t let him distract you.

ELIAS (JONAH)
(contemptuous) Peter.

PETER
(equally contemptuous) Elias.

MARTIN
Both of you just - just shut up. Just give me a second to think.

PETER
Of course. You can take all the time in the world.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Come now, Martin. I would have thought you’d jump at the chance to kill me.

MARTIN
That’s not… why wouldn’t you help against the Extinction?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Because I’m a busy man. It has never been my top priority.

MARTIN
I don’t believe you.

ELIAS (JONAH)
That really doesn’t matter, I’m afraid. It’s the only answer you’re going to get.

MARTIN
If I…

If I do kill you, will the others survive?

PETER
Elias?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Come now, Peter, it’s a valid question. And you should have addressed it yourself, really.

The short answer is, I don’t know, Martin. I guarantee it won’t be pleasant for them, but I honestly don’t know if their ties to the Institute are quite as strong as I may have implied. You, at least should be insulated from the fallout by your new allegiance. Jon… might be powerful enough to weather it. Melanie’s well out of it, so that just leaves Basira and Daisy. And the rest of the Institute, of course, and you can’t tell me you care about them.

MARTIN
(indignant) Wh- of course I do!

ELIAS (JONAH)
Do you though? Do you really care about any of them? Or is that worrying just simply an old reflex?

Goodness. Peter has done his work well, hasn’t he? No, the only choice I think that matters is whether you want to kill me or not.

MARTIN
I do. (laughs) I really, really do.

PETER
Then do it, Martin. We’re the same, you and I. We don’t need anyone else. watching from a distance, that’s always who you’ve been. Haven’t you enjoyed it these last few months, drifting through the Archives unseen, unjudged? You’ll like it in there. I promise.

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, I think I would.

PETER
Then do it. Kill him and help me save the world.

[A LONG PAUSE.]
MARTIN
No.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
DAISY
Well?

BASIRA
Looks like two people. An old guy and-

DAISY
A woman with a scar.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, God, now? Why now?!

BASIRA
It’s probably not a coincidence. From what I saw they’ve been toying with the rest of the Institute, but it won’t be long until they’re all dead or escaped.

DAISY
And then they’re coming here.

ARCHIVIST
(under his breath) Right.

BASIRA
Set up by the door. Try and take them when they break through.

DAISY
Right.

ARCHIVIST
Do I, uh… do I get a gun?

BASIRA
You’ve fired one?

ARCHIVIST
(indignant) You never taught me!

BASIRA
You never asked. Besides, we’ve got problems enough without -

[A LOUD CRASH.]
NOT-SASHA
Hello, Jon.

BASIRA
Oh, shit.

ARCHIVIST
You’ve got to be fucking kidding-

[LOUD CRASH, GUNSHOTS]
BASIRA
Go!

[CLATTERING SOUNDS AS JON RUNS.]
TREVOR
Joooooonny boy! (cackles)

JULIA
We want to make a statement!

NOT-SASHA
Oh, hello! What’s happening here? New friends?

[GUNSHOTS. NOT-SASHA LAUGHS.]
NOT-SASHA
Not new friends? Even better.

DAISY
What the hell is that thing?

JULIA
Ha! You see that, old man?

TREVOR
Talking. They’re all monsters in here.

ARCHIVIST
You remember what happened to Sasha?

BASIRA
That’s the thing that took her.

ARCHIVIST
It was trapped in the tunnels. It - Martin. Something’s happening down there.

BASIRA
If he’s down there with Peter, or Elias… dammit, we need to get down there.

TREVOR
(in the background) Come out, come out, wherever you are!

(sniffs) Can you smell ‘em?

JULIA
Ugh. Hard to tell over the stink of that thing!

BASIRA
They’ll follow us… goddammit. Jon, go, we’ll keep them busy.

ARCHIVIST
What? No! I -

BASIRA
Don’t argue. Just go.

NOT-SASHA
Joooon?

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Just don’t die.

BASIRA
Go.

[A FEW MOMENTS OF SILENCE AND CLANKING.]
BASIRA
This might be it.

DAISY
Basira…

BASIRA
Didn’t think it would end like this. (heh) You know what, actually, I think I did.

[JULIA LAUGHS MANIACALLY IN THE BACKGROUND]
DAISY
Basira, promise me something.

BASIRA
What - no. Daisy, no.

DAISY
Basira, when this is over, you need to find me. And kill me. Promise me.

BASIRA
No. No, Daisy, we’ll figure something out.

NOT-SASHA
You can’t hide forever, Jon…

DAISY
These last few months… it was always borrowed time, wasn’t it? Can’t outrun it forever.

BASIRA
(desperately) Daisy…

DAISY
Promise me.

BASIRA
I promise.

DAISY
Thanks. Now run.

BASIRA
Daisy -

DAISY
(voice growling, distorted by the Hunt) Run…

[QUICK FOOTSTEPS, DAISY SNARLING. JULIA LAUGHS AND COCKS A GUN.].
JULIA
There you are.

TREVOR
All alone.

DAISY
(snarling) Shit!

[A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT.]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
PETER
Martin. What are you doing?

MARTIN
I’m… saying no. I refuse. Game over.

[THE KNIFE CLATTERS TO THE GROUND.]
PETER
Martin, this is not the time for petulance. There are bigger things at stake here -

MARTIN
(laugh) You know, I think that was actually the problem. You made the stakes too high. All the little details that didn’t add up… it made them more obvious. Exaggerated.

PETER
The Extinction is coming.

MARTIN
Oh, I’m sure it is! But that’s not what this is about, is it? This isn’t about saving the world, it’s all just some power play against him. I might not know exactly what’s going on, but I don’t think I want any part of this. However much I want to kill him… I’m out.

PETER
But you said -

MARTIN
Honestly, I mostly just said what I thought you wanted to hear.

PETER
I see. (to Elias) This is your doing, is it?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Hardly.

MARTIN
It’s not him! It’s not anybody. It’s just me. Always has been. I…

When I first came to you, I thought I had lost everything. Jon was dead, my mother was dead, the job I had put everything into trapped me into spreading evil and I… I really didn’t care what happened to me. I told myself I was trying to protect the others, but… honestly we didn’t even like each other. Maybe I just thought joining up with you would be a good way to get killed.

And then… Jon came back, and… and suddenly I had a reason I had to keep your attention on me. Make you feel in control so you didn’t take it out on him. And if that meant drifting further away, so what? I’d already grieved for him. And if it meant now saving him, it was worth it.

When you started talking about the Extinction, though… you had me actually, then, for a while. But then - (laughs sardonically) then, you tried to make me the hero. Tried to sell me on the idea that I was the only one who could stop it. And that I’ve never sat right with me. I mean, I mean, look - look at me, I’m not exactly a - a chosen one. But by then I was in too deep. So I played along. Waited to see what your end game was, and here we are.

Funny. Looks like I was right the first time. It’s probably still a good way to get killed?

ELIAS (JONAS)
(smugly) I warned you, Peter.

PETER
But you do serve the Lonely.

MARTIN
Oh, I’m getting there, but if this is the final test or something? Then bad luck. The answer’s still no.

PETER
(petulantly) No. No! This isn’t fair - do you have any idea what you’ve done? You knew, he must realize -

MARTIN
Jonah had nothing to do with it.

PETER
No, that’s not - you can’t -

ELIAS (JONAH)
You’ve lost, Peter, admit it. He played you like a… (gleefully) like a… cheap whistle.

PETER
No! Shut up.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Peter. It’s time.

PETER
Fine.

MARTIN
Great. Now perhaps one of you, then, can tell me what’s…

[PETER’S TELLTALE STATIC FADES IN SUDDENLY, DROWNING OUT MARTIN’S VOICE. WHEN IT FADES OUT, MARTIN IS GONE.]
ELIAS (JONAH)
It won’t be that bad, Peter. You’ll see. Now, he’ll be here soon, so you can leave or -

PETER
Oh, no. No. I’m not gonna make it easy on him. You haven’t won yet.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Your choice. Just make sure to leave the door open.

[PETER’S STATIC RISES ONE LAST TIME, THEN FADES. ELIAS, BY HIMSELF, LETS OUT A LONG, TRIUMPHANT LAUGH.]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[A FEW SECONDS OF JON’S LABORED BREATHING]
ELIAS (JONAH)
Ah, Jon. I was almost worried. You found your way all right?

ARCHIVIST
(out of breath) Yes. Yes, I did.

…how?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Suffice it to say I called you.

ARCHIVIST
What is this place?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Hmm. A complicated question. And time is as -

ARCHIVIST
The panopticon.

ELIAS (JONAH)
(pleased) …my, you have grown. Yes. A masterpiece, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. It is. And that’s you there? Your… body?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Not anymore. But not really, although if you harmed it, it wouldn’t go well for me. Or any of your friends, for that matter.

ARCHIVIST
Maybe it’s worth it.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Maybe. And I’m sure in another circumstance, you would be more than happy to take your chances for a shot at revenge.

But…

ELIAS (JONAH)
But for Martin, time is very much of the essence.

ARCHIVIST
Where is he?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Peter Lukas has cast him into the Lonely, and with every passing moment he gets further away from you.

ARCHIVIST
How do I bring him back?

ELIAS (JONAH)
From out here? Impossible.

ARCHIVIST
You want me to follow him?

ELIAS (JONAH)
No, Jon. You want you to follow him. I simply want you to know that if you do so, you are almost certainly not coming back. To go into the Lonely willingly is as good as death.

[THERE IS NO HESITATION.]
ARCHIVIST
How do I do it?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Wasn’t too long ago. And I’m sure traces of their passage still remain. Just open your mind. Drink it all in. Know their route, and simply… follow it.

[THE STATIC ONCE AGAIN RISES.]
Very good.

Are you scared, Jon?

ARCHIVIST
(quietly) Yes.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Perfect.

[WITH THAT, THE STATIC OVERTAKES HIM.]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>

<|startoftext|>
[CLICK]
[INT. THE LONELY]
[THE SOUND OF SQUEALING STATIC AND THE ARCHIVIST’S FOOTSTEPS]
ARCHIVIST
Martin!

Martin!

PETER
(soft, distorted) He doesn’t want to see you.

ARCHIVIST
Where are you?

PETER
I’m not here, Archivist. No one is.

PETER’S ECHO
No one is.

PETER
It’s only you.

PETER’S ECHO
It’s only you.

ARCHIVIST
Fine. Then maybe no one can answer some questions.

[PETER’S VOICE CONTINUES TO ECHO; HE PAUSES AFTER EACH SENTENCE, ALLOWING IT TO REPEAT ITSELF, BEFORE MOVING ON TO THE NEXT.]
PETER
You’ve still got time, Archivist. Turn around leave. You played your part, now go.

ARCHIVIST
What’s wrong, Lukas? Afraid of talking face-to-face?

PETER
(chuckles) Of course. Or haven’t you been paying attention?

[THE ARCHIVIST MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND. FOOTSTEPS CONTINUE.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin!

PETER
It’s odd, really. You each think you’re so focused on the other, but how much do you really know each other? How much time have you spent together when not working, or bickering, or fleeing from that latest thing that wants to kill you?

So. What are you seeking? The image you’ve each created of the other? The people you think you love don’t exist. Not really. And that’s a very lonely place to be.

ARCHIVIST
(cutting off Peter’s echo) Shut up! Martin!

PETER
(smugly) He doesn’t… want… to see you.

ARCHIVIST
Then let me hear that from him.

PETER
Just go.

ARCHIVIST
Make me.

Unless you can’t. The Lonely and the Eye aren’t too far apart, are they? Not really. What good’s being alone if you don’t know how alone you truly are?

Which means… well, I think you’re worried. You know I’ll find him eventually, and you know I can find you.

[SEVERAL SECONDS OF SILENCE]
Hm. Thought so.

[MORE FOOTSTEPS, THEN…]
(surprised) Martin!

MARTIN
(quietly) Jon?

MARTIN’S ECHO
Jon?

[MARTIN’S VOICE IS DISTORTED SIMILARLY TO PETER’S, FAINTLY ECHOING IN THE SAME WAY. HE SOUNDS TIRED.]
ARCHIVIST
I - I’m here. I came for you.

MARTIN
Why?

ARCHIVIST
…I thought you might be lost.

MARTIN
Are you real?

ARCHIVIST
Yes! Yes, I-I am. Come on, we’ve got to get out of here.

MARTIN
No. No, I don’t think so.

ARCHIVIST
(aghast) Why?

MARTIN
This is where I should be. It feels right.

ARCHIVIST
(over Martin’s echo) Martin, don’t say that.

MARTIN
Nothing hurts here. It’s just quiet. Even the fear is gentle here.

ARCHIVIST
This isn’t right. This isn’t you.

MARTIN
It is, though.

(wry laugh) I really loved you, you know?

ARCHIVIST
Obviously he’s done something. Peter’s done something to mess with y -

Damn it! Martin! Martin!

PETER
I tried to tell you. He’s gone. He made his choice. And it wasn’t you.

ARCHIVIST
It was for me, though. I’m the reason he… I did this to him as much as you.

PETER
Yes. I suppose you did.

Where are your friends, Archivist?

ARCHIVIST
Tim and Sasha are dead.

PETER
Yes?

ARCHIVIST
Daisy and Basira are probably dead.

PETER
Because. Of. You.

ARCHIVIST
Georgie and Melanie have left me.

PETER
And?

ARCHIVIST
Martin’s gone.

PETER
You’re alone, Archivist. The last one standing. I did warn you. I did want you to leave, but… perhaps it would be better if you stayed a while. After all. You can’t hurt anyone in here.

ARCHIVIST
(seemingly defeated) Yes.

PETER (AS THE ARCHIVIST’S ECHO)
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
(flatly) Or perhaps you could answer some questions.

PETER
…what?

ARCHIVIST
I wouldn’t try to leave if I were you. I can see you now. I can find you wherever you go.

[PETER’S VOICE STOPS ECHOING.]
PETER
Fine! It was just a thought. So leave.

ARCHIVIST
Not before I get some answers.

PETER
That’s not going to happen.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me your story, Peter Lukas.

[AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS, THE CRACKLING STATIC OF COMPULSION RISES.]
PETER
No!

ARCHIVIST
Tell me.

[PETER LETS OUT A FEW LONG, PAINED GROANS.]
PETER (STATEMENT)
(angrily) Fine! Fine. Where do you want to begin? The start? A lonely youth, my gradual path to becoming an only child?

That’s the thing, you see, about a family faith. You’ve got to double down on the believers.

My mother had five children over her life, before my father finally drifted away. She was a Lukas to the core, though not born into the family, while my father, for all he believed himself keen on a “life without obligation,” gradually withered away to nothing as she cultivated the space between them.

The house was sprawling. Our bedrooms were kept as far apart as possible and changed often, as we were cared for by a rotating cast of nannies and tutors. You know, she’s still alive? But I still can’t picture my mother’s face with any clarity. And I consider that a blessing. I’m not even burdened by hatred for her. She is simply someone who exists, far away from me. It was the sort of childhood that would not be allowed if we didn’t have money, but we’re an old family with, shall we say, a (chuckles) remarkably direct line of inheritance. The sort of family where no social worker would even be allowed on the property.

But for all that, aside from a few oddities of faith, I don’t know how different my upbringing was from other scions of aristocracy. (heh) From what I understand, severing the connection to your humanity is a cornerstone of an upper-class education. Though I was spared the targeted traumas of boarding school, as my mother clearly believed the danger of friendship was too acute.

I suppose to call myself an “only child” is, technically, untrue. Two of my sisters still live, though they disavowed the family and moved far, far away. Still… to be cut off from one’s family is its own very special sort of loneliness, isn’t it? So we all serve, in our own ways.

The other two – my brother, Aaron, and sister, Judith – well, they weren’t considerate enough to quietly grow to adulthood and disappear. They simply didn’t have the temperament to thrive in the Lukas household, always trying to… instigate games. Make friends. (faint disgust) Connect with people.

As far as I’m aware, they were sent away to live their lives with very distant relatives, never to return. I’m sure it’s possible my mother resolved the matter in a less-pleasant manner, but in my limited interaction with her, she never struck me as a cruel woman, and I would imagine for children that age, the fear and isolation of being uprooted and sent away is just as strong as that of meeting a more… grisly fate.

I, of course, was the favored son, being quiet and reserved, and at all points deeply engaged with my own loneliness. I had no time for books or television, or any of the escapes and artificial friendships of fiction. No, I was myself, and that was enough. I would spend my days exploring the wide grounds and forests of our estate, finding the hidden corners I thought that none would have found before me - though now, I wonder how many generations of Lukases had exactly those thoughts, in exactly those spots.

As soon as I was old enough, I would run away for days at a time. I would take what money I needed from my mother’s purse, and hitchhike to any city I could reach. Looking back, I realize how odd it was that her purse was always so full of cash, and I believe it may have been the closest thing I ever received to her blessing.

By the time I arrived at whatever destination I had arbitrarily picked, it would usually be night. I would walk around the darkened streets, drinking in the sodium orange, looking at the lit windows of the tower blocks that surrounded me, each one a small cozy den of warmth and humanity, and reveling in my distance from them. Sometimes I would pass another late-night traveler on the street, and I would hate them. They shattered the distance, my cocoon of quiet stillness, and I wished with all my heart that they would simply disappear.

And one day… one of them did.

I still remember him well. He was tall and broad, wearing a green raincoat he clearly bought before middle age began to set in. There was a thin drizzle that night, one of those rains you can’t see, but leaves everything glistening and damp, and he was struggling with an umbrella. I tried to pass him quickly, but his eyes met mine and he… (disgusted) smiled, and asked if I could help him.

I can’t describe the feeling that passed through me. I can only say that I told him to go away. And he did.

Or perhaps… I did. In retrospect, it’s hard to be sure which of us fell out of the populated world, but either way the sense of blissful relief, edged with a strange, creeping fear - it was something I’d never experienced before. It was intoxicating.

When I returned, I was met by my mother, and a small group of stern-faced relatives that I had never seen before - except at funerals. They took me below the house, and showed me the truth of our family. It was… difficult to accept, at first. Not because I didn’t want it to be true, but because it seemed unbelievable that any god could be so perfectly in tune with my heart.

I left the house again shortly after and took to the sea, and never saw my mother again - except, of course, at funerals.

Some of my most peaceful memories were on the Tundra. I had gathered a small group of trusted souls who I knew were loyal and dedicated to… my money. They had no qualms or morals about what we did on that boat, and at my request, each signed to the ship under a false name, so I would never have to know who they were. Those lonely nights of sacrifice and waiting, hearing the dreadful sound of my ancestors’ whistle drift over the dark and brooding waters, knowing another soul was leaving this world…

God, I wish I was there now. Locked in my cabin, staring over the quiet emptiness of the open ocean.

But it’s moored now, and I came on land, at (angry) Elias’s request. My crew is out there, waiting for a call I think I am now unlikely ever to give them.

I will call him “Elias,” for that’s how I’ve known him for most of our… acquaintance, though I originally met him when he was still James Wright, Head of the Magnus Institute. I considered him a dull little man at first, so keen to watch other people’s misery, to lose himself in secondhand pain and drama - exactly the sort of thing I’d always been so keen to avoid.

Gertrude was the one that scared me. She seemed to have no interest in meeting me whatsoever, something I appreciated, but there was something in her eyes when she looked at me. As though she was making a calculation, and I was an unwanted integer she was deciding whether to remove. It wasn’t until much later that I realized exactly how true that was. Still, it seems I was never a pressing-enough concern for her to sail out after me - or even wait until I made port and waylay me. I suppose even she couldn’t have predicted how it would all turn out.

Thinking about it now, perhaps one of the reasons I lasted as long as I did was that I was, at the end of the day, predictable. A known quantity. I had my little patch, sending my poor, lost sailors to their forsaken end, but I rarely stepped outside of it. When I think of all those I met who traveled in this secret world we found ourselves in – Gertrude, Simon, Mikael, even Rayner – there are plenty whose lives might well have been easier with my death, but it was rare that I strayed outside my habits.

Maybe that’s why, when I crossed paths with (slight disapproval) Adelard Dekker, we ended up talking and he told me his theory of the Extinction - something that stayed with me even after he died pursuing it.

The thing is, the loneliness I crave, that fills my heart with that reassuring unease, relies on distance from other people. But a world without people at all, or at least anything I would recognize as people…? It is meaningless. Without the lighted window in the distance, how am I to see myself apart from it? No. Such a world would be terribly dull, and scares me in a very different way. A fear I am happy to offer up, of course, but one that I would prefer not come to pass.

My instinct was much like the others: I thought that if I could complete my ritual first, then the potential birth of the dreadful change would be meaningless. I started it shortly before Simon convinced me to join him with his little space experiment. It was interesting, of course, but in the end a tremendous waste of money, just to scare a single astronaut. But I had it in my mind that it might distract from my true attempt.

I had commissioned the services of architects, designers, and sociologists, all under a variety of pretenses, and had secured a plot of land near Aldgate East. I was going to build a tower block of my very own. Oh, it was a marvel of design! Deceptively-spacious apartments, yet no room quite big enough for a double bed or decent-sized sofa. Cooking facilities that seemed adequate until you tried to do more than microwave. An office space in every flat, but without a door, so you could never truly escape your work. None of them had more than a single bedroom - though each had a main bathroom and an ensuite, which is a small touch I was very proud of.

The lower four levels were left deliberately empty, so anyone living there could only see the people below from a distance - the lights of the city that they were removed from. The windows were thick, and every wall had soundproofing inside it. The corridors were full of false doors, so even though each floor was designed to minimize the probability of residents encountering each other, it would seem as though they were crowded in by doors that would not open if knocked on. I made the elevators very small.

Then, I offered the rooms at a ridiculously low price for their central London location, and then screened the applicants mercilessly. I prioritized those who were newly moved to the city: graduates who needed cheap accommodation, and were moving into intense and high-stress jobs that would give them little time for socialising. Recent divorcees were also very suitable, especially those whose friends had sided with their partner. I crammed them in, pushing them to stew in a cocktail of distant lights, empty corridors, and lukewarm takeout for one.

The plan was to wait until those inside reached a critical mass of loneliness and despair, then all at once, lock them in remotely. Cut off their internet and phone lines, and leave them to die, alone, in their Single-Occupancy Professional Dooms as the Forsaken emerged from their terror. I called it the Silence - though to be honest, it was mainly because I thought they had to have names. Can’t say if the title was desperately inspired.

(resigned) Then - of course - Gertrude Robinson happened. Do you know how she did it? What devastating weapon she used to derail my plan? The newspaper. She tipped off someone in The Guardian.

I still remember seeing the headline, there in black and white: “The Loneliest Building in Britain.” Trouble is, everyone I picked was white middle-class, so people actually cared, falling over themselves to declare it “emblematic of the problems of the modern world.” (ugh) The thinkpieces started to pour in, the applications started to drop off, and I was up to my neck in (exasperated) community outreach programs. No way to salvage it. Years of my life and a sizeable fortune down the drain. She didn’t even have the decency to kill me.

It really knocked me back. Took me years to find myself again. I returned to the Tundra, tried to forget - but the trouble was, I’d tasted the game now. I was still hungry for more. I suppose that’s why I was so keen when Elias contacted me. We’d kept in touch, of course: my family helped fund the Institute, and he’d always been good about tipping me off to potential victims. Going through something horrific can leave you feeling very isolated indeed, especially if you know no one else will believe you.

And of course… he knew I find it hard to resist a wager.

If I could convince one of his staff to willingly pledge themselves to the Lonely, it was all mine. He even let me pick the victim. He was so sure the price of the Institute, the Panopticon and a willing vessel to use it would be just too much for me to resist. And… he was right. Just didn’t go quite as I’d hoped.

You know, this is one of the first bets I ever made with him I’ve actually lost. But I guess that’s how hustlers work, isn’t it? They lose and lose until you’re willing to put it all on the line, and then - the trap shuts.

So I suppose that’s probably why I reacted so rashly, trying to rip his victory away. Keep you here. But it looks like I might have underestimated my opponent once again.

ARCHIVIST
What was his prize? What did he get if you lost?

PETER
(disinterested) Oh, he got you.

ARCHIVIST
I-I don’t understand.

PETER
And you won’t. Not from me.

I’m done.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me.

[THE COMPULSION STARTS UP AGAIN.]
PETER
(pained) I’m… not saying… another… word.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me, or I will rip it out of you.

PETER
No…

[THE STATIC GROWS LOUDER.]
ARCHIVIST
Answer my question!

PETER
(echoing again) No! Leave… me… ALONE!

ARCHIVIST
TELL ME!

[THE SQUEALING CRESCENDOS AS THE ARCHIVIST RIPS PETER LUKAS APART. LUKAS LETS OUT A FINAL DEFIANT SCREAM THAT FADES INTO THE REGULAR STATIC.]
ARCHIVIST
(whispered) Stubborn fool.

[A FEW SECONDS PASS, FOOTSTEPS]
Martin. He’s gone, Martin. He - he’s gone.

MARTIN
(echoing) His only wish was to die alone.

ARCHIVIST
Tough. Now – listen to me, Martin. Listen.

MARTIN
(emptily, echoing) Hello, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Listen, I know you think you want to be here, I know you think it’s safer, and well – well, maybe it is. But we need you. (desperately) I need you.

MARTIN
No, you don’t. Not really. Everyone’s alone, but we all survive.

ARCHIVIST
(cutting off Martin’s echo) I don’t just want to survive!

MARTIN
I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
Martin. Martin, look at me. Look at me and tell me what you see.

MARTIN
I see…

[MARTIN’S VOICE QUAVERS.]
I see you, Jon.

[HE LETS OUT AN INCREDULOUS CHUCKLE, THEN ANOTHER. HIS ECHO GOES AWAY.]
I see you.

ARCHIVIST
(relieved) Martin.

[MARTIN’S BREATHING GETS FASTER. HE SOBS, HIS VOICE BREAKING.]
MARTIN
I… I was on my own. I was all on my own.

ARCHIVIST
Not anymore. Come on. Let’s go home.

MARTIN
How?

ARCHIVIST
Don’t worry. I know the way.

[THEY BEGIN TO WALK, AND THE TAPE ENDS.]
[CLICK]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[BRIEF STELLAR FIRMA SHOW THEME JINGLE]

[ATMOSPHERIC AIR NOISES OF THE SPACE STATION]

[PNEUMATIC DOOR OPENING]

DAVID-7 
Oh! Oh, I just go back in here, do I? I-is there anything that happens… now? [BRIEF PAUSE] Oh, Board help me, I’m alive! [RELIEVED SIGH] Trexel saved me, in-in a way… [SIGH, THEN UNDER HIS BREATH: Idiot…] Oh! Oh, it’s a package! [TAPE BEING PULLED FROM A BOX] M-maybe it’s a “well done, I’m not being recycled” present! M-maybe it’s a guide to getting out of here! [PAPER RUSTLING] And… [STAMMERING] Oh… it’s, um… it’s just some sort of… speaker box thingy…

[BRIEF PAUSE OF HESITATION]

[TAPE RECORDER BUTTON PRESS]

[SOUNDS OF TAPE RECORDER PLAYING, CONTINUING IN THE BACKGROUND UNTIL RECORDING ENDS]

TREXEL, FROM THE TAPE RECORDING 
Woah now! What’s this doing? Why is the lighting so moody in here? Stop that! Stop that! You can’t fool me, you swirling-eyed demon! Take that! [SOUND OF A HIT FROM A BLUNT, WOODEN OBJECT ON THE TAPE RECORDER] And that! [HIT] And how about one of these?! [HIT, A SLIGHT SCRAPING AS THE OBJECT IS DROPPED].

[TREXEL BREATHING HEAVILY FROM EXERTION] You’re a tough old thing, aren’t you? Wh-what’s this now? A note. “Make your statement.” [PAPER RUSTLING] Okay: I was never there, Your Honor! At the time of the offense I was committing another, more serious, far elsewhere on the station, so it could not possibly have been me! And anyway, you can’t prove a thing! And I should know because I broke into the prosecutor’s quarters and read their notes! I’m not corrupt! You’re corrupt! The defense rests! No further questions! Case: dismissed!

…Oh wait there-there’s more: [PAPER RUSTLING] “Make your statement; face your fear.” Fear. Fear… [PAPER RUSTLING] Well, I-I don’t have any fears! Nope! Not… not me! I’ve-I’ve never had a fear! Wh-what’s fear? That’s what I say! Old no-fear Geistman, that’s what, uh… [NERVOUS SWALLOWING] that’s what they call me.

[BRIEF PAUSE OF HESITATION]

Uh… Well there was one night… Uh, this was years ago, you understand, I was a young consultant, skin raw from the academic fluid of the private education tanks and just… so full of hopes and dreams for the future. I had it all back then: a freshly minted sales license, a membership to all the executive clubs, and a liver you could bounce micro-asteroids off.

I was, well… I suppose you would say naive. Young and naive. Young, naive, and stupid, and drunk. I’d been celebrating my graduation–don’t judge me! Oh, and sleep-deprived–look, the point is that even then I-I wasn’t conforming to the web of rules and regulations and basic safety measures that society wanted to chain me down with.

But, despite all of that, I knew that sales is where I wanted to be. The rush of the pitch! The thrill of the deal! The glee of the double invoice! The ritual hunt of the client! And the retainers. Oh my Board, the retainers. But, as my mother always said, “Who are you and why are you in my office, you short idiot?!” Wait, sorry, not that one. She always said, “Nothing in this universe comes without a price, you short idiot.” And no matter how much taller I got that… never changed.

So, after I arrived at my new office that evening, it was late, far later than work hours, but I just wanted to see where it was all going to happen! Where my germination would to begin!

[SPOOKY BACKGROUND MUSIC, THE SAME FROM THE MAGNUS ARCHIVES]

The halls were dark. Just the dim lights of the instructional propaganda notice board glowing with the words “Don’t even think about it, buddy!” There was the door. In bold letters, “T. Geistman: Sales Consultant.” A tear crept to the eye. All mine! Finally, it’s all mine! I pressed my tongue to the fluid identification panel: the taste of success! I pressed my flesh onto the print reader: the touch of victory! And I whispered into the sonic identificator, [WHISPERS: “Geistman,”] the sound of justice!

The door glid open–Glid, is that right? Glidd-ed? Gload-ed? Gled–the door opened and I stepped in and it was dark, far darker than the vast, inky void outside showing through the viewport on the opposite wall. That had stars picked out across its surface, like a sparse carpet of diamonds spilled by a careless debutant or a… clumsy jeweler.

And there… there on the desk, something… terrible. Something unimaginable. I tried to look at it closely but my mind spiraled and refused to focus. My understanding slid over this… thing like a slimy clone across a steel floor. What was this, this hideous thing, warping the space around it with malevolent force? Was I mad? Had my sanity been ripped away from me that instant and cast out into that void? Had the end come? A promising life cut short without care?! Without reason?!? No! No… because I’m exaggerating.

But on that desk was… [PAUSE] it was… [LABORED BREATHING] a-a timetable! [THROAT CATCHING AT THE MERE THOUGHT FOLLOWED BY LABORED BREATHING] Oh, jailer of time! Oh, cruel foreman of the clock! Segmentor of moments in the ever-changing now. Was this the end of my hopes, my dreams, trapped in a desolate future of turning up to things at the time I had previously stated that I would arrive!?

My vision was swimming; my chest, tight. I couldn’t breathe! I felt like I was being buried alive under a mountain of mild responsibility! I couldn’t stay there. The hunger for freedom overwhelmed me and my legs worked automatically. I ran for… Board, I don’t know how long I ran for, or how far, but I ran and ran until my strength gave out. My ears ringing, a pounding in my chest, every part of me aching and burning. I looked about for anyone: friend, stranger, someone I could talk to, maybe persuade to buy me a drink. But there was no one! In that moment I felt so… lonely. Just me and my thoughts. It was like the education tanks all over again, except I wasn’t upside-down being flushed from Blame Shift-o-nomics to Introductory Arithmetricks.

I look back on that day now and think that maybe that was the first time things… maybe things weren’t going to be smooth sailing for Old Trexel Geistman. Old Geisterino. The Geistenator! [SIGH] Things weren’t going to be as easy as I thought…

[BRIEF PAUSE]

Well, story ends, or statement, or whatever. What happens now? Oh! A trophy! Or a nice side table for my living quarters. Something in dark wood. Board, I could slaughter a flaxen-whisk right no–

[SLOW, HEAVY FOOTSTEPS]

Wait… who is that? Who is there? Reveal yourself!

[SLOW, HEAVY FOOTSTEPS CONTINUE]

Oh! David, is that you? Why are you looking at me like that? And what’s that in your hand? Is that my length of pipe? What are you doing with my length of pipe!?

[TAPE RECORDER CLICKS OFF]

DAVID 
Wh-wa-wait, me? With a pipe? I-I’ve never approached anyone threateningly with a pipe! That’s not David! I’m David! Oh, ooh! It’s made me feel all tingly! Oh, I don’t like this audio whatsit at all! Maybe I should… Ooh! Ah! [SOUNDS OF DAVID’S EXERTION TO FIGHT WHATEVER COMPELLING POWER THIS SPOOKY SPEAKER BOX HAS]

[WATERY SPLASH-PLOP]

[SPOOKY BACKGROUND MUSIC COMEDICALLY DIPS IN PITCH AND VOLUME]

Ooh! Ah! There we go! Right into the chair hole with you! Bye-bye spooky speaker box!

[SOUND LIKE A TOILET FLUSHING COMBINED WITH A HIGH-POWERED BLENDER, GURGLING PLASTICY DESTRUCTION NOISES]

[STELLAR FIRMA OUTRO MUSIC]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, POST-WATCHER’S CROWN]
[TAPE CLICKS ON]
[THE BACKGROUND HAS A SHIMMERY QUALITY TO IT, A HAUNTING SET OF SOFT ORGAN-LIKE TONES, MODULATING SLOWLY. IT IS NOT HARMONIOUS, BUT IT IS MUSICAL. WE HEAR THE OCCASIONAL SCREECH, THOUGH WHETHER HUMAN OR INANIMATE IS UNCLEAR. STILL, ALL OF IT SEEMS NORMAL, WHATEVER THAT MEANS IN THIS NEW WORLD. IT IS NOT COMMENTED UPON. IT IS ROOM TONE.]
[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS DEEPLY. HE INHALES SHARPLY, AND A SMALL CREAK IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWS.]
[THEN HE SIGHS AGAIN, AND THIS TIME, IT’S MORE OF AN EXHALE.]
ARCHIVIST
What? (Beat) What do you want?

[SOMETHING CREAKS.
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
The world is-

[SOMETHING IN THE BACKGROUND– WIND? A MONSTER?– HOWLS, AND THE ARCHIVIST FALTERS FOR A MOMENT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
It’s over. You’ve won.

What can you possibly still need to hear?

[HIS VOICE DIPS LOWER AT THE END OF HIS SENTENCE. SOMETHING CREAKS, LONGER THIS TIME. THE ARCHIVIST GASPS.]
MARTIN
(knocking) Knock, knock!

ARCHIVIST
Who’s there?

[WHEN HE SPEAKS, HIS VOICE IS FILLED ENTIRELY WITH AFFECTION.]
[WE HEAR A COUPLE OF FOOTSTEPS AS MARTIN STEPS INTO THE ROOM.]
MARTIN
Just me.

ARCHIVIST
(ah, yes) Just me who.

[IT’S PHRASED LESS OF A QUESTION, AND MORE OF AN INEVITABILITY.]
MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
Never mind.

MARTIN
Uh- okay.

How are you feeling today?

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES DEEPLY.]
ARCHIVIST
Define.. “today.”

MARTIN
How are you feeling in general, then.

ARCHIVIST
Unchanged. I don’t know if it will ever change again.

MARTIN
(trying) I brought you some tea.

ARCHIVIST
(immediate) No, you didn’t.

MARTIN
Uh- what? Y,Yes, I did.

[A SMALL NERVOUS CHUCKLE.]
ARCHIVIST
We ran out of tea the day before the change; you said the little shop in the village didn’t have any more.

[BRIEF PAUSE. SOMETHING RATTLES.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Ergo, (braced inhale) that isn’t tea.

[MARTIN BEGINS TO SPLUTTER AND WALK CLOSER.]
MARTIN
W,What? No, of course it’s tea, I-

[THE RATTLING FLARES UP, LOUDER; HISSES, EVEN. MARTIN BREAKS OFF, BEGINS TO YELL, INCREASED IN VOLUME. HE DROPS THE TEACUP OR MUG. IT SHATTERS.]
[WE ASSUME THE HISSING WAS THE TEA.]
[THE THING HISSES AGAIN, QUIETER, THEN FADES OUT WITH A LAST RATTLE, LEAVING OR DISAPPEARING.]
[MARTIN’S YELLING SUBSIDES.]
MARTIN
Wha- What’s [bank]- Alright, I, I made that! If, if- (heavy breathing, steadying himself) I thought you were!-

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry, Martin. (dry laugh, humorless) Things don’t work like that anymore.

MARTIN
(indignant) Like what?

ARCHIVIST
Like normal.

[A WAILING SOUND- WIND OR MONSTER?- FROM THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
This isn’t a world where you can trust-

MARTIN
(spluttering) Tea?

ARCHIVIST
Comfort.

[MARTIN EXHALES.]
MARTIN
Oh. (brief pause, quieter) Yeah. Yeah.

[HE EXHALES, SOFTLY, AND THEN THERE’S SILENCE FOR A MOMENT. SOMETHING… WARPS IN THE BACKGROUND.]
MARTIN
(humorless little exhale) Maybe I should, uh- pop down the village? See if they have any coffee instead?

ARCHIVIST
It’s gone, Martin, and the people are-

MARTIN
Yes, I know, Jon; I’m not ignorant, I’m just- I’m just not ready for complete despair yet.

ARCHIVIST
Like me.

MARTIN
I didn’t say that.

ARCHIVIST
You didn’t have to.

[SILENCE. THE WARPING WIND IS BACK, IN THE BACKGROUND, WITH A FEW OTHER NOT-QUITE-NATURAL NOT-QUITE-UNEARTHLY SOUNDS LAYERED OVER IT.]
MARTIN
You know I’m here for you.

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES, LONG AND DEEP, THEN EXHALES.]
ARCHIVIST
Yes.

[CLOTHES RUSTLING. POSSIBLY A HUG, AT THE VERY LEAST DRAWING CLOSER TO MARTIN.]
ARCHIVIST
Yes I do.

MARTIN
Alright. Alright.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

MARTIN
You still… (sigh) Feeling it, seeing everything?

ARCHIVIST
(nearly a whisper) Yes. I, I’m trying not to, but- all the fear, the anguish, i-it just keeps coming at me in waves, rolling over me, filling my head with such awful sights.

MARTIN
I’m sorry. That sounds.. (small sigh) That sounds horrible.

ARCHIVIST
I wish it was, Martin. I really wish it was.

[SOMETHING CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST
But it feels… right.

[HE EXHALES, A BREATHY HUH.]
[SOMETHING CREAKS.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, 2015]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[CLOTHES RUSTLE.]
MARTIN
Careful!

TIM
Sh-hh!

[A DOOR OPENS.]
TIM, SASHA, MARTIN
SURPRISE!

[SOMEONE BLOWS A PARTY HORN.]
ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Jesus!

TIM
Happy birthday, boss.

SASHA
Happy- Oh, (laughing, a bit) are you okay?

ARCHIVIST
No, I!- Christ, one second.

MARTIN
Sorry, sorry; Tim wanted to surprise you, and-

TIM
Snitch.

[SOME PAPERS HAVE BEEN RUSTLING IN THE BACKGROUND OVER THIS.]
ARCHIVIST
No, no, it’s fine, thank you. Just a- shock.

TIM
(duh) Well, that’s the idea.

[SOMEONE FLIPS A PAGE. PROBABLY THE ARCHIVIST.]
ARCHIVIST
Indeed. Though, uh, honestly, the bottle of wine was just fine.

[HE PULLS OUT A CHAIR AS HE TALKS.]
TIM
Pfft, yeah, as a decoy.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well, thank you. This is very- (rapid page flipping) elaborate of you.

SASHA
Plus, it was kind of fun, giving you a heart attack.

ARCHIVIST
Mm, I’m sure. I notice you didn’t jump out at Martin when he had a birthday.

TIM
(can hear his smile) No, he’s way too jumpy as it is.

[MARTIN LETS OUT A SOUND OF SINGULAR OFFENSE.]
TIM (CONT’D)
We were worried he might damage himself!

MARTIN
(higher) Hey!

[CLOTHING SOUNDS, AS IF HE’S FOLDING HIS ARMS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(hmph) Well- I preferred going out for ice cream anyway.

ARCHIVIST
You went for ice cream?

SASHA
Yes, you were there!

MARTIN
You had- rum and raisin, and taught us all about emulsifiers.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Right, yes, (unconvincing) I- I remember.

TIM
(smiling) Liar.

ARCHIVIST
Well, thank you anyway. This is all- very touching.

TIM
We just wanted to do something to lighten the mood, you know?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I’m- (inhale) aware it’s been a- rough start.

[HE EXHALES.]
SASHA
(*really?*) That’s not what this was about; we just thought you could use a chance to unwind.

ARCHIVIST
(exhale) I.. suppose it couldn’t hurt.

[A SOFT KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
JONAH MAGNUS (AS ELIAS)
Knock knock.

TIM
Double boss!

SASHA
Elias?

MAGNUS
I’m not too late for cake, am I?

ARCHIVIST
There’s a cake?

TIM
How did y- Martin! That was a secret!

MARTIN
(high) I didn’t say anything!

MAGNUS
He didn’t have to. Nothing escapes my notice, and I like to keep an eye out for this sort of thing.

TIM
Well- it’s- good to see you.

ARCHIVIST
Yes- Y,yes! Come in?

MAGNUS
So, how old is the birthday boy?

ARCHIVIST
Uh- thirty-eight.

[THERE’S A SOUND THAT CAN BE INTERPRETED AS SASHA EITHER TCH-ING OR FLICKING HIM.]
SASHA
Liar.

[EVERYONE LAUGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
(petulant) How would you know.

TIM
What, does someone need to change their password again?

ARCHIVIST
I- what?

[TIM LAUGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Sasha, have you been going through my computer-

SASHA
(overlapping, definitely yes) Definitely not; No idea what he’s talking about.

TIM
‘Course not!

[THEY BOTH KEEP LAUGHING IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
(mostly under his breath) That’s really not appropriate.

[HE SIGHS, UNHEARD.]
MARTIN
Oh, come on, guys!

MAGNUS
Anyways. Somebody mentioned cake.

TIM
Uh, yeah. You did.

MAGNUS
(inhale of mock surprise) Yes, I did, didn’t I.

[TIM SIGHS.]
TIM
Alright, alright. Well, I guess the cat’s out of the bag now, anyway, look- just give me a second.

[SOMEONE SIGHS. AGAIN, PROBABLY THE ARCHIVIST.]
[WE HEAR SOME CERAMIC-TYPE SOUNDS AS TIM GETS OUT THE CAKE.]
TIM (CONT’D)
(singing) Happy birthday-

[EVERYONE ELSE JOINS IN.]
EVERYONE
-to you.

ARCHIVIST
(dear god this is happening) Oh, okay.

MARTIN
Mhm!

EVERYONE
Happy birthday to you.

ARCHIVIST
Right!

EVERYONE
Happy birth-

ARCHIVIST
(please cease) Yes!

[HE SIGHS. NO ONE LISTENS.]
EVERYONE
day, dear-

TIM, SASHA, MARTIN
-Jo-on.

MAGNUS
(simultaneous) -Archivist.

EVERYONE
Happy birthday to you.

ARCHIVIST
I-

TIM
(overlapping, laughing) Yay!

ARCHIVIST
Alright, yes- thank you. I do hope you’re not planning to light those candles.

TIM
(who, me?) Oh, goodness.

[HE SHAKES A BOX OF MATCHES.]
TIM (CONT’D)
A source of ignition? In the Archives?

[SASHA LAUGHS.]
TIM (CONT’D)
Uh-oh.

ARCHIVIST
Tim.

TIM (CONT’D)
(overlapping) Mmm.

Oh. Whoops! (strikes a match) Sorry. My hand slipped.

[THE FLAME CRACKLES AND BURNS INTO BEING.]
TIM (CONT’D)
And again-

[A SLIGHT CRACKLE AS HE LIGHTS A CANDLE.]
TIM (CONT’D)
And again-

[THE SAME CRACKLE.]
TIM (CONT’D)
And a couple more times- here, I’m so clumsy today; that is a lot of fire.

[THE CANDLES CONTINUE TO CRACKLE IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
I’m really not comfortable-

SASHA
So blow them out, then.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. (slight pause) Right, yeah-

MAGNUS
And make a wish.

ARCHIVIST
If I wish for you all to go away, do you think it’ll work?

TIM
He’s so grumpy today, isn’t he Martin?

MARTIN
Uh- oh! Well, um-

TIM
(cutting him off) Do you think it’s his looming sense of mortality?

[MARTIN SPLUTTERS.]
MARTIN
Uh- I, I don’t think-

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

[HE BLOWS OUT THE CANDLES. EVERYONE CHEERS, SOMEONE CLAPS.]
TIM
So, what did you wish for?

ARCHIVIST
I can’t tell you.

MAGNUS
He wished for a little bit of peace and quiet.

ARCHIVIST
(small inhale) Was it that obvious?

[SMALL EXHALE.]
MAGNUS
Oh, I wouldn’t worry, Jon. It’s an Archive. Quiet is very much the course du jour.

TIM
Well, after the party, at least. Wine, anyone?

ARCHIVIST
Tim, it’s eleven in the morning.

[THE CORK POPS.]
TIM
Pfft, yeah, at your birthday party.

[HE BEGINS POURING.]
ARCHIVIST
I really don’t think it’s appropriate-

MAGNUS
(overlapping) I’ll allow it. In fact! I’ll join you.

ARCHIVIST
(surprise) Oh! O-kay, um, a-al, alright then?

[SOUNDS OF CONTINUED POURING BEHIND ALL THIS.]
SASHA
Martin?

MARTIN
Oh! Uh, (slight strained laugh) I mean- I don’t- normally- drink wine, you know- t-tannins are a proven headache trigger, and so-

SASHA
Martin.

[MORE POURING SOUNDS.]
MARTIN
W-, uh- (more stuttering) -yeah, sure, maybe, just uh, a drop. Heh.

ARCHIVIST
(more statement than question) You know that there’s a lot of tannin in tea as well?

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
Hang on, have you been recording this?

[CLOTHING RUSTLING.]
TIM
Oh! Yeah! I- just thought it might be nice, you know, something to look back on when we’re all old and sick of each other.

SASHA
You probably should have told us, Tim.

TIM
(laughing) What, are you afraid we’re going to get sued over the Happy Birthday song?

MARTIN
(slightly higher) Oh, oh, well I am now!

[TIM SIGHS.]
SASHA
It’s just a bit of a privacy thing.

[ARCHIVIST]
(under his breath, hmph) Oh, hypocrite.

TIM
(overlapping) Alright, alright, fine, look. I’m turning it off. Any last words for your future selves?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. (to the tape) Fire Tim.

[TIM LAUGHS.]
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[WE HEAR THE STRANGE HOWLING BACKGROUND DESIGNATING OUR FEARFUL NEW WORLD.]
[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES, SOMEWHAT SHAKILY.]
[SOMETHING CREAKS.]
[HE BREATHES AGAIN.]
[MORE CREAKING.]
[THERE’S A SOFT KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK AT THE DOOR.]
[FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN
(gentle) Hey.

ARCHIVIST
Hi.

[HIS VOICE IS ROUGH, WEARY- A STARK CONTRAST TO THE YOUNGER VERSION OF HIMSELF WE JUST HEARD ON THE TAPE.]
[MORE FOOTSTEPS AS MARTIN GETS CLOSER.]
MARTIN
You, uh, listening to the tapes again?

[SOME RUSTLING SOUNDS AS HE SITUATES HIMSELF.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
How many times is that, now?

ARCHIVIST
They were sent to me, Martin. (inhale) There’s got to be some reason-

MARTIN
(sigh) Gloating, Jon. Elias won, and there were some tapes he’d kept for himself, and he wanted to gloat. So he sent them. I, I don’t see-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) He’s not. Elias.

MARTIN
Jonah, then. I don’t know; I find it hard to think of him as- (pause, inhale) I don’t really like to think of him.

[SILENCE.]
[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
You should get some sleep.

ARCHIVIST
(exhale) I- (sigh) Can’t. I, I can’t. I, I don’t think I do anymore. Sleep. (shaky sort of laugh) How long’s it been, now?

MARTIN
I don’t know. It’s not like there are days to count, anymore, (sigh) all the clocks are stopped, and…

[HE TRAILS OFF, SOMEWHAT SHAKILY.]
ARCHIVIST
Well, I haven’t yet. I get- tired, but it doesn’t feel the same.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Probably for the best. Sleep doesn’t look… pleasant.

MARTIN
…No, it’s. (unsteady inhale) It’s. Not.

ARCHIVIST
I couldn’t wake you.

MARTIN
I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
It’s not-

[HE SNIFFS, AND THEN LETS OUT A SOUND THAT’S SOMEWHAT WHEEZY, ALMOST STRANGLED. IT’S UNCLEAR IF IT’S A HUMORLESS LAUGH, OR HIM NEAR TEARS. POSSIBLY BOTH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
You’re not the one who ended the world.

[THE BACKGROUND HOWLS. THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS. MARTIN HOLDS BACK A SIGH.]
MARTIN
(somewhat forced brightness) Well, just as well I don’t remember my dream.

ARCHIVIST
I do.

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
(inhale) I see most of the suffering around here. When it’s quiet, it just- It’s like.. I can.. see it, like I’m watching all of it.

MARTIN
You haven’t been opening the curtains.

ARCHIVIST
No, I don’t need to.

It can see us here, and.. and I can see out as well.

MARTIN
O-kay, we’ll just file that under- ominous for now.

[A SIGH.]
[MORE CREAKING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
We seem safe enough in here, at least.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose so.

MARTIN
(trying) Bit of a hideaway?

ARCHIVIST
Or a prison.

MARTIN
..Yes. Still, better than outside.

[MORE CREAKING. THERE’S NOW A MUSICAL COMPONENT OF THE OUTSIDE. IT SOUNDS… FULL OF IRON. IT SOUNDS LIKE A CERTAIN PORTION OF THE MAGNUS ARCHIVES’ THEME, THOUGH IT’S NOT ENTIRELY RECOGNIZABLE AS SUCH.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
It sounds bad.

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS THAT STRANGE, HUMORLESS LAUGH.]
ARCHIVIST
It is.

[BRIEF SILENCE.]
MARTIN
Are we still safe?

ARCHIVIST
Y-Yes. It- It doesn’t want to harm me.

MARTIN
And me?

ARCHIVIST
I won’t let it.

[MORE CREAKING.]
MARTIN
Um. (uh) Thanks.

[MORE SILENCE. MORE CREAKING.]
[A BREATH.]
[CLOTHES RUSTLING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Jon, it’s not your fault.

ARCHIVIST
(sharp) Martin, can we not do this again?

MARTIN
Sorry.

ARCHIVIST
I’m just- I’m mourning a world I killed-

MARTIN
(overlapping, placating) I know-

ARCHIVIST
(increasingly fervent) and we’re all trapped in its rotting corpse!-

MARTIN
Enough, Jon.

[THE ARCHIVIST STARTS TAKING OUT A TAPE.]
ARCHIVIST
Have you heard the Gertrude one?

MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
The Gertrude one; there are a few of them, but this is my favorite.

[OVER THEIR CONVERSATION, HE GETS THE TAPE READY.]
MARTIN
(sigh) I don’t-

ARCHIVIST
Just. Listen.

[HE PUTS THE TAPE IN.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, GERTRUDE’S OFFICE, MARCH 20TH, 2015]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
GERTRUDE
Right. If you’re listening to this, then it is likely that- (she breaks off, sighs) No. Let’s not beat around the bush. If you’re listening to this, it means I’m dead. And you have been chosen to be my replacement as Head Archivist.

Hopefully, this means you, Sasha, but if someone else is hearing this, and Elias has made a different choice for some reason, then these words are still very much intended for you.

Before I continue: It is very important to be absolutely clear this is not a joke. Nor is it any sort of prank, or game. Your colleagues have not convinced me to record this as an attempt to… haze you. This is completely serious. And very, very important for you to know.

If it is you I’m talking to, Sasha, hopefully your background in Artifact Storage will lend a certain degree of.. credence to my words. But others may have to take it on trust.

All I can do is assure you I am deadly serious. (sigh) So. The first thing you have to do is accept that you are in great danger, and will be for the rest of your life. There are now things that will actively be trying to kill you, due to your new role as Archivist, and Elias has plans for you that are little better.

You will also be unable to relinquish the position or quit the Institute, finding you are supernaturally compelled to remain.

In fact, it occurs to me that attempting to do so is probably the quickest and easiest way to establish the truth of what I am telling you, so I suggest you do so at the earliest possible opportunity.

Things you need to be aware of:

There exists in our world supernatural entities of incredible power that reflect and feed on the fears of all living creatures, but most commonly humans. Many consider them gods, and while I believe that is far too simplistic a comparison, for our purposes here it is perhaps the most useful shorthand.

They do not rule our world, but they do exercise considerable power, which they generally manifest in the form of monstrous beings that spread further fear- or, incarnations, those humans who have willingly, though not always knowingly, chosen to take on the power of these entities.

You, unfortunately, have unwittingly made the decision to become one of those incarnations. For the Institute serves a being variously known as: The Eye, It Knows You, The Beholding, The Ceaseless Watcher. It is the fear of being watched, and judged, and having all your secrets known. The Institute serves as a way for it to harvest the fears of the other entities, dragging out the suffering of those who come to give statements and- claiming their terror.

But, there is another part of being the Archivist. These.. beings, these.. gods of fear- their followers believe that they have… rituals. Grand projects which, if successful, would allow them to enter our world, reshaping it in- unthinkable ways. Molding it into a dimension where terror is as natural as gravity.

You are now one such ritual.

I do not know the exact details of it, but be wary of whatever Elias asks you to do.

Oh, yes. On the subject of Elias: Trust nothing he says. He was originally known as Jonah Magnus, the founder of this Institute, and I have known him also as James Wright, the previous head of this Institute.

He has certain.. abilities of clairvoyance, which allow him to perceive out of any eye, real or symbolic, so be wary. Play ignorant as long as you can while you expand your own research.

I’ve managed to keep the Archives in a state of chaos for decades, as I believe his plan would benefit from their organization. But I leave that to your judgement. Certainly, the longer he is ignorant of how much you know, the better.

Above all else: be ready. There are many things out there loyal to other powers which know your importance to the Eye, and will want. You. Dead.

You are entering a new world, a place I’ve lived for most of my life. A place… (she sighs) A place that will often demand a high price from you. Pay it without hesitation, because one way or another, the world is now on your shoulders. (sigh)

I wish I had more time to explain it to you. But time is short, and hopefully my actions tonight will ensure that this tape never needs to see the light of day.

But if you are hearing it, then- good luck. Do what you have to do.

[SHE SIGHS, HEAVILY.]
[THE DOOR OPENS.]
JURGEN LEITNER
Are you finished?

GERTRUDE
Jurgen! I told you to stay in the tunnels.

[LEITNER WALKS IN AND PULLS HIMSELF OUT A CHAIR.]
LEITNER
Your message also told me it was urgent.

GERTRUDE
(sharper) If Elias is watching right now-

LEITNER
Then your recording all that was meaningless anyway. Besides, I’m not afraid of him.

GERTRUDE
Bravado. (heh/hm) Really?

LEITNER
Mmmmm- it’s not bravado-

GERTRUDE
We’re wasting time. Do you still have the Ruskin book?

LEITNER
I do, though I don’t relish the thought of using it. Makes it rather hard to breathe, like your chest is being-

GERTRUDE
(overlapping) Do you know the gas main, a little way out in the tunnel?

LEITNER
I do.

GERTRUDE
I need you to move it.

LEITNER
(hem-and-haw) Iiiii, ummmm. That’s. I mean it’s not just earth; there’s pipework, and all sorts of-

GERTRUDE
Find a way. I need it to be directly under the Institute, or at least closer.

LEITNER
I’m more likely to rupture it, and fill the place with gas.

GERTRUDE
(heh) Hm, that would also be acceptable.

LEITNER
Mmm. I’ll do what I can. (sigh) When do you need it?

GERTRUDE
If my guess is right, the Church’s ritual should be collapsing any time now, so- immediately.

LEITNER
And if you’re wrong?

GERTRUDE
Then a bit of gas will be the least of our worries.

LEITNER
…Right. What are you going to do?

GERTRUDE
Paper burns well.

[SHE HOLDS UP A CONTAINER OF LIQUID- IT SLOSHES.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
Petrol burns better.

[IT SLOSHES AGAIN. LEITNER LAUGHS.]
[THE CONTAINER SLOSHES AGAIN AS GERTRUDE SETS IT DOWN.]
LEITNER
I always forget your pyromaniac streak.

GERTRUDE
Mm. Remind me to tell you about Agnes sometime.

LEITNER
Right. (brief pause) Did you mean to leave the tape running?

GERTRUDE
Oh, good grief. Forty years I’ve been using them, and I swear, I’ll nev-

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[BACK TO THE HOWLING WORLD.]
ARCHIVIST
Can you imagine? If we’d had this?

MARTIN
But we didn’t, did we.

ARCHIVIST
No-

MARTIN
So there’s no point in dwelling. (heavy breath) Jon, I - This isn’t healthy.

ARCHIVIST
Healthy? I am an Avatar of voyeuristic terror, who unquestioned craving for knowledge has condemned the entire world to an eternity of torment; healthy i-isn’t- i,it’s not-

MARTIN
Fine, fine. I get it.

ARCHIVIST
Besides. G- (shaky) Grief.. is healthy. I,If nothing else, it pushes away the other feelings that that- thing wants me to experience.

MARTIN
It just- It hurts me to see you wallowing like this.

ARCHIVIST
(snapping) Well, some of us weren’t able to cut ourselves off from the world before it ended.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
MARTIN
That’s not fair.

ARCHIVIST
No, it’s not; I’m- I’m sorry, I just- (large shaky breath) It hurts.

MARTIN
I know.

ARCHIVIST
I need time.

MARTIN
I know. But we can’t stay in this cabin forever.

ARCHIVIST
Why not? It- It’s quiet, here, and I have you.

[IT’S MARTIN’S TURN FOR A HUMORLESS SOUND- HALF LAUGH, HALF EXASPERATED SIGH.]
MARTIN
What about food?

ARCHIVIST
What about it? When’s the last time you thought to eat, or even felt hungry?

MARTIN
(quietly) What? (louder, a revelation) Uh- I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
No. Whatever is sustaining us now doesn’t need us to eat.

MARTIN
That- That can’t be possible.

ARCHIVIST
It’s a new world, Martin; the natural laws are whatever they want them to be. And I suspect they don’t much care to keep humanity fed and watered.

MARTIN
(inhale) Well, that as may be, we can’t just stay here forever.

ARCHIVIST
What could possibly be out there that you want to see?

MARTIN
A way to stop this, a way to turn the world back!

ARCHIVIST
(softer) Do you really think there is one?

MARTIN
Well, if there is, it’s not in here, is it?

ARCHIVIST
It’s so- (shaky breath) It’s so.. loud, out there? The agony, the, the terror, I can see it all so much more clearly.

MARTIN
I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
No, it’s- (sigh) I love you, I just- (inhale) I need more time.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
It’s alright.

[MOVEMENT. CREAKING. AN EXHALE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
It’s alright; I’m good at waiting.

ARCHIVIST
(near whisper) Thank you. (more normal) I just wish it didn’t feel like whatever’s out there was waiting, too.

MARTIN
..Yeah.

[BRIEF SILENCE, THEN-]
[CLOTHES RUSTLING.]
MARTIN
Hey- Hey, when did you start recording?

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST
(confusion) I- didn’t. I only brought one, and I’ve been using it to play the tapes.

MARTIN
Oh. (sigh) That’s not a great sign.

ARCHIVIST
No. No it’s not.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, SOMETIME 2013-2014]
[WE HEAR CLINKING, AS IF FROM SOME BOTTLES. SOMEONE TURNS SOME PAGES, THEN ZIPS SOMETHING.]
GERRY KEAY
Hmm.

GERTRUDE
Find anything interesting back there?

[AS SHE SPEAKS, GERRY STARTLES AND KNOCKS DOWN WHATEVER IT WAS THAT HAD BEEN CLINKING. IT HITS THE FLOOR WITH A CLATTER.]
GERRY
Yeah, sorry, I was just, um- yeah.

GERTRUDE
Curiosity is a very dangerous trait in our line of work, Gerard.

GERRY
So is ignorance.

[GERTRUDE LAUGHS: FAIR ENOUGH.]
GERTRUDE
Well, you’re not going to find many dark secrets in the stationery cupboard.

[ONE OF THEM CLOSES THE CUPBOARD.]
GERRY
(amused) Just the recorded confession of your evil plans, then.

[SOMETHING CREAKS.]
GERTRUDE
Oh, I’d be something of a fool to leave that one in the recorder.

GERRY
I’ve never really seen you use it.

GERTRUDE
Mm. It’s generally only for those statements I think might be useful to my successor. Or, the occasional interview.

GERRY
So, do I get to hear them?

GERTRUDE
Perhaps. If you live long enough. But somehow I doubt Elias would look favorably on your application.

And if I’m being quite honest-

GERRY
(overlapping) Yeah, I know, I know. And I don’t want your job.

GERTRUDE
Believe me, the perks aren’t worth the shackles.

GERRY
(heard this all before) Yeah, yeah.

[SOMEONE TURNS ANOTHER PAGE.]
GERRY (CONT’D)
So, what’s the verdict?

GERTRUDE
Hm?

GERRY
(duh) On The Travels.*

[* LIKELY REFERRING TO THE TRAVELS OF MARCO POLO.]
GERTRUDE
Oh- Burn it, I think. You said Mr Hampton was dead?

[PAGE FLIP.]
GERRY
Yep- and not peacefully.

GERTRUDE
(overlapping) But you hadn’t seen its powers?..

GERRY
Not directly.

GERTRUDE
Well, given the themes of the original, I doubt it has anything that would be worth the danger.

GERRY
And when in doubt..

GERTRUDE
Well, quite.

GERRY
Can I use your wastepaper bin?

GERTRUDE
Yes, it’s just-

[SHE CUTS OFF- JUST AS THERE’S A CREAK FROM A DESK OR CHAIR, LIKELY GERRY BEGINNING TO GET UP.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
Wait. Surely you didn’t bring it here!

GERRY
Well, yeah, I, uh-

GERTRUDE
Gerard, we’ve talked about this. Bringing unvetted artifacts or books into the Archive is incredibly dangerous.

GERRY
It’s locked away!

GERTRUDE
And I’m sure the lock is very sturdy, but that doesn’t stop it being an unnecessary risk.

GERRY
(softer) Yeah. I’m sorry.

GERTRUDE
This is exactly the sort of thing that will get you killed!

GERRY
I said I was sorry!

[BRIEFEST OF PAUSES.]
GERTRUDE
Then we’ll say no more about it.

[SHE GOES BACK TO FLIPPING THROUGH PAGES.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
I don’t enjoy being hard on you, but I really would rather you stayed broadly intact.

GERRY
I’m touched. You’re going soft in your old age.

GERTRUDE
(heh) Well, you are occasionally useful. Despite your foolishness.

GERRY
Flatterer.

GERTRUDE
Heh. You can probably burn it in the back courtyard, if you’re careful.

GERRY
(okay, okay) Yeah, will do.

GERTRUDE
And for goodness’ sake, make sure no one sees you. The last thing we need is a letter to Elias about book burnings.

GERRY
Look, if you have somewhere better to burn these books, then-

GERTRUDE
(overlapping, jokingly over-the-top) Of course, Gerard! I just happened not to mention the network of sinister tunnels that snake beneath the Archive where I keep all my darkest secrets.

GERRY
I mean, you joke, but there could be! It’s that kinda place.

GERTRUDE
I rather hope I would have found them by now. I like to think I’m not a complete incompetent.

GERRY
Until dementia hits.

GERTRUDE
Given my choice to confide in you, I rather suspect it already has.

[SHE FLIPS MORE PAGES.]
GERTRUDE
Go burn your book!

[MORE FLIPPING.]
GERRY
Gertrude.

GERTRUDE
(continuing her work) Mm?

GERRY
What happens if we fail?

[SHE STOPS.]
GERTRUDE
In… what sense?

GERRY
If we miss a ritual; you know- if one of them works.

GERTRUDE
Been losing sleep, have you?

GERRY
Yeah- something like that.

GERTRUDE
(measured) If we are lucky, then that failure will also mean our deaths.

[SHE EXHALES.]
GERRY
You don’t think they can reach us after death?

GERTRUDE
I suppose that depends on your religious beliefs.

[HER CHAIR CREAKS.]
GERTRUDE (CONT’D)
Personally, I suspect death puts us beyond their power, either we find ourselves in some… afterlife, or because we simply- cease to be.

GERRY
Yeah, I guess.

GERTRUDE
And I am certain that either scenario is preferable to lingering in a world they control.

They’re- (sigh) -already able to circumvent physics, and suspend natural laws. If one were to genuinely press through, I suspect they would rewrite them wholesale, most likely making them.. utterly incomprehensible to any survivors.

They- They might still need us human enough to be afraid, but beyond that…

Let’s just surmise that (sigh) petty rules like space or time would be unlikely to factor into the proceedings. They might even stop death entirely, deny us the one last escape, keeping us alive and afraid- forever.

[PAUSE. GERRY EXHALES. THEN:]
GERRY
And taxes?

GERTRUDE
(heh) Taxes, I imagine, will continue.

Beyond that, I honestly don’t know. I suppose it depends on which one comes through. The world of the Stranger would be- very different to that of the Corruption.

GERRY
Eugh. (pause) And if it does happen-

GERTRUDE
It’s my fondest ambition to make sure it does not.

GERRY
Yeah, sure, but- suppose it does.

GERTRUDE
(sigh) Very well.

GERRY
Could it be undone?

[SILENCE.]
[GERTRUDE TAKES A BREATH. HER CHAIR CREAKS.]
GERTRUDE
(decision made) No. I don’t think so. Once an Entity fully manifested, I doubt it would be keen to fully relinquish its grip on realit-

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[THE ROARING OF THE POST-RITUAL WORLD IS QUIETER THAN LAST TIME. THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS AS-]
[THE TAPE IS REWOUND.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, SOMETIME 2013-2014]
GERTRUDE
No. I don’t think so. Once an-

[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[TAPE IS REWOUND.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, SOMETIME 2013-2014]
GERTRUDE
No. I don’t think so.

[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[TAPE IS REWOUND.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, SOMETIME 2013-2014]
GERTRUDE
I don’t think so.

[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS FOR A VERY LONG TIME.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, SOMETIME 2013-2014]
GERTRUDE
Once an Entity fully manifested, I doubt it would be keen to relinquish its grip on reality. And as for those unlucky enough to survive its rule.. I don’t think they’d be in a state to do anything about it.

[GERRY EXHALES, A BIG HEAVY PFFT OF A THING. WE HEAR SOME CLOTHING SOUNDS.]
GERRY
Well. Then I guess we’d better not let it happen.

GERTRUDE.
Well. Quite.

Now. I believe you have an evil book to burn?

GERRY
Yeah. Of course.

[HIS CLOTHING RUSTLES AS HE MAKES TO GET UP.]
GERRY (CONT’D)
You, uh- need anything else burning?

GERTRUDE
(a bit of a laugh to it) No, no. Not right now. I think I’m alright, thank you for the offer.

GERRY
Right.

GERTRUDE
Oh, and, Gerard-

GERRY
Hm?

[CHAIR CREAK.]
GERTRUDE
Don’t go rifling through my things in future. It could end.. badly for you.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[THE TAPE RECORDER IS OPENED, AND THE GERTRUDE/GERRY TAPE TAKEN OUT. ANOTHER TAPE IS PUT IN.]
[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS DURING IT ALL.]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S TENURE, PRE-READING OF ANGLERFISH (2015)]
[SOME RUMMAGING NOISES.]
SASHA
This it?

TIM
Oh, thank god. I thought I was seeing things.

SASHA
Glad I could help.

TIM
I didn’t know he was actually gonna ask me to get it for him; I just mentioned it ‘cause he was talking about recording.

SASHA
Well, I’m sure he’s waiting!

TIM
(grumble) Mm, he can wait a bit longer.

[THERE’S A KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK TYPE SOUND.]
SASHA
Fantastic! Good of you to volunteer to help me.

TIM
Uh- I, I didn’t actually-

SASHA
Grab a stapler.

[TIM SIGHS IN DEFEAT.]
TIM
Fine. (another knock) What are we doing?

[WE HEAR SOME MORE PAGES RUSTLING.]
SASHA
Jon’s been getting frustrated with all the loose statement sheets around. (stapler) I’m going box by box, collating and stapling them. And now, so are you.

TIM
(exaggerated sigh) If you say so.

SASHA
(mock sympathy) I do.

[YOU CAN HEAR THE SMILE IN HER VOICE AS SHE SPEAKS.]
[A FEW MOMENTS PASS IN SILENCE WITH THEM FLIPPING THROUGH STATEMENTS AND STAPLING. THEN THERE’S A SIGH FROM TIM, AND:]
TIM
So. How are you finding our new leader?

[STAPLER.]
SASHA
Mm, alright, I suppose. Early days yet.

[MORE PAGE FLIPPING.]
TIM
Sure, sure.

[STAPLER. PAGES.]
TIM (CONT’D)
Do you think he knows what he’s doing?

SASHA
Mm, he’ll get there. (stapler) I just wish he wouldn’t take it out on Martin in the meantime.

[AS THEIR CONVERSATION CONTINUES, SO DO THE STAPLING AND PAGE SOUNDS.]
TIM
(heh) If only there had been someone more qualified!

SASHA
Tim.

TIM
Sasha.

SASHA
(same tone) It’s Elias’s decision.

TIM
It’s some sexist bullshit, is what it is.

SASHA
I mean. Probably.

TIM
Look, it should have been you, and you just know if you had called him out, the little weasel would start talking about traditions, and- (bad Elias impersonation) -the values of our esteemed founder, Jimmy Magma.

[SASHA STARTS LAUGHING.]
TIM (CONT’D)
Jonie.. Magnum?

SASHA
Closer.

TIM
Jack Magnet?

SASHA
(laughing) That’s the one.

TIM
Ah, I’m serious, though. You should say something.

SASHA
Mm, Tim- I’ve been in academia for what, ten years now?

TIM
Mm.

SASHA
I know how this goes! I didn’t get the job. If I kick up a stink, I’ll just get blackballed.

TIM
(resigned) Ah, yeah. (brief pause, mischievous) What if we kill him?

SASHA
(ha) What, Elias?

TIM
No. Big Boss Sims. Cut the brakes on his office chair; no one would ever know.

[SASHA STARTS LAUGHING AGAIN.]
TIM (CONT’D)
Swap in a poisoned tea bag, pin it on Martin- the perfect crime.

SASHA
(still laughing) And how do you know that you won’t be the one that gets it? That boy makes a lot of tea.

TIM
No, it’s okay; I spent the last few years building up an immunity to iocaine powder.

[SASHA LETS OUT AN EXAGGERATED GROAN AT THE REFERENCE. TIM HEHS.]
[A BRIEF MOMENT OF SILENCE, THEN:]
TIM (CONT’D)
So, what are you gonna do.

SASHA
I don’t know, really. Might just get another job.

TIM
What, seriously, just jump ship?

SASHA
(eh) Yeah, I guess so. I mean, there’s not much out there at the moment, but I’ve got a few alerts set up.

TIM
(rueful) I can’t believe you’d just abandon our intense will-they, won’t-they storyline like that.

SASHA
Eeerm, I’m pretty sure we established it’s very much won’t they.

TIM
No, no, no, no, see- we had the ill-advised hookup, the awkward aftermath, and the gradually rebuilt friendship, but- that’s all season two stuff. We’ve got like five more seasons before we get the heartwarming epilogue that makes it canon.

SASHA
I know it’s hard to hear, mate, but you’re not the love interest. (beat) I think you might be the character they drop after the pilot!

TIM
(you wound me) Uh, wow. You are vicious today.

SASHA
Sorry, Tim! I can’t hear you over all this stapling.

[THEY STAPLE IN SILENCE FOR A BIT. SASHA SIGHS.]
SASHA
I guess it’s just- I don’t have anything keeping me here. You’ve got your brother-

TIM
(quieter) Yeah.

SASHA
Sorry. And Martin can’t go anywhere that’ll look too hard at his CV.

TIM
Wait. How do you know about that?

SASHA
It’s all on the system. Our digital security is shocking, by the way. Besides, it’s not even a good lie.

TIM
Okay, but seriously, you cannot let Martin know. He’ll think I told you, and I swore to keep schtum.

SASHA
Hey, don’t worry. I mean- I kinda just ended up here. And I like it- l,liked it. But if I’m bashing my head against the glass ceiling, it’s time to go.

TIM
Well. I’ll miss you.

SASHA
(fond) Yeah. You will.

TIM
Oh, for god’s sake. (bad impression of presumably everyone else at the Institute) Oh, Tim’s so hard to talk to, seriously, he won’t stop making jokes and references, not like Sasha. (normal) They’ve got no idea.

SASHA
(ha!) And they never will.

TIM
Seriously, though. Everyone thinks you’re just this reliable, down-to-earth nerd-

SASHA
And what makes you think they’re wrong?

TIM
So what, actually I’m the one who doesn’t get to see the real you?

SASHA
No such thing.

TIM
As what?

SASHA
A- A real you. I don’t think so, at least. It’s all just masks.

TIM
(amused) Alright, Stanislavski.

SASHA
You know what I mean.

TIM
You really believe that?

SASHA
Kind of! I mean, who knows why we do what we do?

TIM
I do.

SASHA
No. All you know is what your brain does to justify what you do. It’s no more reason than the face you put on for Jon. The only real you is the actions you take.

TIM
Hey, I’ll have you know I have a rich inner life.

SASHA
How nice for you. But hurry up with your outer one; you’re falling behind, and I’m not saving you any staples.

TIM
(laughing) Yeah, yeah. I still can’t believe Gertrude was allowed to let this place get into such a state!

SASHA
Mm. I just wanna know why.

TIM
What d’you mean why? You saw her, she’s like a hundred years old and more cardigan than woman. She just started to lose it. Sad, but it happens.

SASHA
You never talked to her, did you?

TIM
Well, I mean, I must have at some point.

SASHA
(heh) You’d remember.

TIM
Why? What was she like?

SASHA
Stone. Cold. Bitch.

TIM
Sasha!

SASHA
And sharper than you! No way this is accidental.

TIM
(pfft) Oh, yeah, this is all a big geriatric conspiracy.

[SILENCE.]
TIM (CONT’D)
Wait, seriously?

SASHA
Mhm.

TIM
What possible reason could she have for being criminally incompetent in a manky old archive?

SASHA
No idea. And honestly, it kind of worries me.

TIM
Well, tell you what. If you get eaten alive by improperly filed statements, me and Martin will avenge you.

SASHA
(tch) Well, aren’t you sweet.

TIM
I mean it! We’ll burn this place to the ground, it’ll be all like (mock yelling) SASHA! SAASHAAAAA!

SASHA
And what about Jon?

TIM
(Jon impression) Well, given the incoherence of this statement, I find it hard to believe it ever occurred.

[SASHA LAUGHS.]
TIM (CONT’D)
In fact, based on the evidence, I find it highly unlikely that Sasha ever even existed at all.

SASHA
No. You took it too far! I’m unforgettable!

[TIM LAUGHS.]
TIM
Alright. He fires you because of all the drugs and the wild orgies on Archive property.

SASHA
(still laughing) Yeah, that’s fair. Now, get back to work.

TIM
Yes, ma’am! See? Told you you’d make a good boss.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. SCOTLAND, A DAISY TONNER SAFEHOUSE, PRESENT DAY]
[THE BACKGROUND ROARS.]
[THE ARCHIVIST’S BREATHS COME SHAKY.]
[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES; THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS AGAIN; A BROWN STATIC BEGINS TO RISE FROM THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
(quiet) Wha?-

[THE STATIC CONTINUES TO RISE IN VOLUME.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
There is a place, deep in the heart of fear, where you trap yourself and claim that it is safety.

[THE STATIC DIES SLIGHTLY TO A COMFORTABLE LEVEL.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
It was once a cabin and professes still to be such, but as with all in this new world that promises respite, it is a trap.

[THE SAFE HOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
The land outside is warped and twisted by the touch of those things that feed on your suffering, and behind those rough, wooden planks it seems they cannot reach you.

The screams may linger on the distant breeze, and your Eye may wander beyond the curtains from time to time, but you and the one you love are, it seems, safe.

If you had need to eat, no doubt there would be food; if you had need to sleep, no doubt the beds would be welcoming.

But you have need of neither, and so you sit in your meager comfort and belief of security with nothing to do, nothing to distract your mind from the agonies that lie just beyond your window.

And those diversions you do find will offer no relief-

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
-but simply numb the mind into mournful nostalgia for a time when the world you inhabited seemed to make sense.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS. THE OUTSIDE HOWLS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Something moves outside, struggling to crawl upon a hundred reaching, grasping hands. It shudders, and grips the earth, pulling itself along as nails rip free and skin scrapes loose. It is afraid of what it has become and where it might be going.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Close your eyes.

[THE STATIC SUBTLY ACQUIRES ANOTHER, WHITER LAYER, HIGHER AND HISSING.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Ignore the sounds. You, at least, are safe.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
There, within the thing that pretends to be a cabin, is the one you love. You hold each other-

[CREAK.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
-whisper words of reassurance, but the place knows this comfort to be a lie, and laces upon it instead the awful fear of losing what you have.

[THE SAFEHOUSE IS NOW CREAKING CONTINUOUSLY OVER HIS WORDS.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Of it being stripped away by the chaos that waits for you beyond the walls.

Hold each other, it croons. Be happy. But know always that this happiness is a lie, built on the squirming bones of those whose suffering you have caused.

It will not let you feel the warmth and joy that this love may claim to gift. (lower) It is only a moldy treasure to be clung to. Something to fear the loss of as you hold it so tight that it withers and warps.

It is a rotten sanctuary of lonely companionship.

Outside it is raining. Heavy drops fall, ice-cold and laced with salt. Tears of voyeuristic delight from the eyes that see and drink in all.

It sinks, into the dry, cracked ground, and from the mud faces struggle to push themselves free and breathe. They cannot reach the surface, as the slick soil flows down their throats.

Look closer at the rough planks that make this cabin, and see that they are warmer, softer and more yielding than the hard timber they present. Are the dimensions of this place quite what they were when you stayed here before the change?

Or are the walls thicker, the doors heavier when they close? Were the curtains always stained that dull maroon? Or has the dust of the horrific world they keep at bay dyed them so.

The one you love is always near, so close that refuge sometimes feels a prison. And yet your voice does not echo when you call to them. And they find they sometimes cannot hear it.

[THE STATIC BEGINS TO INTENSIFY AGAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Stay, the cabin says.

[A CLAP OF THUNDER!]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
Stay within my false defenses, cling so close to what you desperately wish to save, and live in shaking fear of the things beyond that may take it from you. Throw another log on the fire and curl up close. There are always more logs for the fire here.

This is your home, and here you can be safe, as you putrefy, body and soul.

This place wishes to be our tomb. But the Eye does not wish that.

[RUMBLING. THE STATIC INTENSIFIES YET AGAIN.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT?)
No, the Eye wishes instead that it be my chrysalis.

It is time that I emerge.

ARCHIVIST
Ah-ah!

[SOMETHING FALLS TO FLOOR AND/OR KNOCKS AGAINST A TABLE. POSSIBLY THE ARCHIVIST. THE STATIC RECEDES SLIGHTLY. MARTIN OPENS A DOOR AND WE HEAR HIM COME IN. THE SOFT FIRE THAT’S BEEN CRACKLING FOR A WHILE IS A LITTLE MORE OBVIOUS NOW, THOUGH IT’S STILL IN THE BACKGROUND.]
MARTIN
Jon? Is it- I thought I heard- are you- are you okay?

ARCHIVIST
I,ye- yes, I (sigh) I think so.

MARTIN
What happened? The tapes, were y?-

ARCHIVIST
I, I was listening, and, i-it- it was the one with- Tim and, and Sasha, uh, where they’re-

MARTIN
Yeah, y-yeah. (soft) Yeah. (shaky breath) Look, Jon, I- I know it hurts, but you’ve just got to-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) No, no- O,Oka- (stops, starts over) I, I was listening, and I, I was filled with this.. hatred. This anger; I,I wanted to leave (heh) and hunt down Elias, uh, and-

MARTIN
(overlapping) Uh- w,wow, okay.

ARCHIVIST
But when I thought it, th-there was- there was something else.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Th-This place, it- it didn’t want me- it didn’t want us- to go.

MARTIN
What do you mean?

ARCHIVIST
This cabin.

[IT CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
It’s not right.

[IT CREAKS SOME MORE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
And when I thought that, I-I felt- (inhale) It, it all poured out of me, down into the tape. I, I, I- and it-

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
-felt good. I-It felt right.

MARTIN
Okay. (pause) So you’re recording again?

ARCHIVIST
I- I might need to. If we’re going to make it.

[CREEEAK.]
MARTIN
(genuinely surprised) Back to the Archives?

ARCHIVIST
Seems the best place to start.

MARTIN
Oh- (surprised exhale) Y,yeah, alright!

[THE SAFEHOUSE KEEPS CREAKING IN THE BACKGROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin, it’s going to be a hard journey. One in which w-

MARTIN
(fast, excited) Yeah, yeah, yeah, so - I’ve actually had a couple of bags packed for a while now.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Oh!

[MARTIN STARTS GETTING OUT SAID BAGS AS HE SPEAKS.]
MARTIN
(overlapping) Um, I found some rope in the attic,

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Okay-

MARTIN
(overlapping) and I packed that with the maps.

ARCHIVIST
(audible smile) Uh, Martin-

[WE HEAR MARTIN ZIPPING/UNZIPPING THINGS OVER THIS CONVERSATION.]
MARTIN
No, no, no; I- I know what you’re going to say, (put-upon Spooky Jon impression) What good are maps when the very Earth has… eh, blah blah blah.

ARCHIVIST
W,w,well yes.

MARTIN
(on a roll) But I, I packed them anyway, because you never. Know.

ARCHIVIST
(fond) Martin.

MARTIN
I- I actually- (heh) I actually found a stash of tea under the kitchen sink- I-

[FOND SIGH FROM THE ARCHIVIST.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I realize we don’t need to eat, or- whatever, but, you know, that doesn’t mean that we won’t-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping, extremely fond) Yes- Yes, yes, it- alright. Alright.

[SOUNDS OF MOVEMENT.]
MARTIN
We’ve got this.

[ONE OF THEM SORTS THROUGH ALL THE STUFF MARTIN’S GOT READY.]
ARCHIVIST
(audible smile) Apparently so.

[MORE RUMMAGING SOUNDS.]
MARTIN
D’you think it’ll do anything? Confronting Elias?

[THE RUMMAGING CONTINUES.]
ARCHIVIST
I- (sigh) Maybe?

MARTIN
No, I’m serious- Do we-

[ONE LAST SOUND OF MOVEMENT, AND THEN IT STOPS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Is there a chance that we can undo this?

[THE FIRE CRACKLES.]
ARCHIVIST
(large inhale, then exhale) Gertrude didn’t think so.

[THE SAFEHOUSE CREAKS.]
MARTIN
Right.

ARCHIVIST
But she’s dead. (inhale) Let’s find out for ourselves.

[HE HOISTS UP SOMETHING, OR MANY THINGS; WE HEAR THE CONTENTS SLIDE AROUND A BIT.]
MARTIN
You’re- taking the recorder?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, just in case I need to- vent. Again, it- (inhale) it helps.

MARTIN
(heavy inhale/exhale) Okay.

[HE PICKS UP SOMETHING OF HIS OWN- HIS BAG.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
You said this place- the, the cabin was- it- it’s feeding on us, right?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

MARTIN
So, should we destroy it? Before we go?

[THE CABIN CREAKS VERY LOUDLY.]
ARCHIVIST
I honestly don’t know if we can.

[HE SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Mm.

ARCHIVIST
Besides, there’s- far worse out there. Better to try and avoid it, I think.

MARTIN
We’re not even gonna try? Look, we’ve got your lighter; maybe if we just -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) We can’t fight the world, Martin.

[A LITTLE BREATH OF A LAUGH FROM HIM.]
MARTIN
(hmph) Says you.

[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES.]
ARCHIVIST
Let’s go.

[WE HEAR THEM GRAB THEIR STUFF. THE WORLD HOWLS ON OUTSIDE.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[EXT. SCOTLAND, AROUND KINLOSS]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[FOOTSTEPS, ON GRIMY, ALMOST WET GROUND. IN THE BACKGROUND, WIND IS HOWLING.]
[AN EXHALE.]
MARTIN
Oh, I’m knackered.

ARCHIVIST
Are you?

MARTIN
I-

[THEY BOTH STOP.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Hm.

[HE TAKES ANOTHER STEP, THEN STOPS AGAIN.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Well- Okay, well, no, no; I suppose not. But I think I should be.

ARCHIVIST
Yep.

MARTIN
How long have we been walking?

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Fourteen hours and twenty-three minutes.

[HE TAKES A STEP.]
MARTIN
What, seriously?!

ARCHIVIST
Yes. I- don’t think it means much out here, though.

MARTIN
We should probably rest.

ARCHIVIST
Maybe- I don’t know, I- I don’t know if we can. Rest. It- feels more like, well- waiting.

[HE SIGHS. THEY BOTH TAKE A FEW MORE STEPS.]
[ANOTHER SIGH.]
MARTIN
…So. Are we going to walk all the way to London?

ARCHIVIST
(a bit of a laugh) If you know an alternative, I’d be very keen to hear it.

MARTIN
I mean- cars? You know, planes, trains, automobiles?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) It wouldn’t help.

MARTIN
Alright, a boat then.

ARCHIVIST
Geography doesn’t work anymore. Space, i- doesn’t work.

MARTIN
Alright. So what does that mean?

ARCHIVIST
It means the journey will be the journey, regardless of how we choose to make it.

MARTIN
Right. And you’re sure we can’t just, you know-

[ANOTHER SHUFFLE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Speed it up a bit?

ARCHIVIST
(inhale) No.

[HE EXHALES HEAVILY.]
MARTIN
Right. I just- Don’t like being out here.

ARCHIVIST
(heh) You see that tower, way off in the distance?

MARTIN
(don’t like where this is going) Yeah. (beat, sigh) It’s watching us, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
The Panopticon and the Institute. Merged into something entirely new.

MARTIN
(splutter-scoff) Wai- what? No, there’s, there’s no way we can see it from here. We- We must still be a hundred miles from the border, never mind London!

ARCHIVIST
You could see that tower from anywhere on Earth. And it can see you. And if you walk towards it, eventually you’ll get there. But you have to go through everything in between.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN
(bright) You’re being ominous again.

ARCHIVIST
(ah!) Sorry. Sorry.

MARTIN
What do you mean ‘everything?’ What’s out here?

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES. AS HE DOES SO, THERE’S A SORT OF CREAKING- AND THEN WE HEAR THE WEAKEST STRAINS OF BAGPIPES BEGINNING TO FADE THROUGH.]
ARCHIVIST
Nightmares. Come on, that trench is our first.

[HE STARTS WALKING.]
MARTIN
What tre-? Where did that..? Why is that here?

ARCHIVIST
In the world as was, we wouldn’t be too far from Kinloss Barracks. So instead we get the trench.

MARTIN
How’d you know all this stuff?

ARCHIVIST
Not sure. I just do.

MARTIN
(quieter) Jon. I’m scared.

ARCHIVIST
Yes. (sigh) That’s the idea.

[THEY START WALKING.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[EXT. SCOTLAND, AROUND KINLOSS, THE TRENCH, A BIT LATER]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE BAGPIPES ARE MUCH LOUDER. WE’RE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ACTION. THERE ARE GUNS BEING SHOT AND BULLETS FLYING AND ALL AROUND, THE CLATTERING OF WAR. GRENADES. EXPLOSIONS. ANY VOICES NEED TO SHOUT TO BE HEARD OVER THE RACKET.]
MARTIN
Shit, shit, shit, shit, shit, shit!

ARCHIVIST
Martin! Stay with me; don’t let go!

MARTIN
Oh..

ARCHIVIST
Come on!

MARTIN
Shit, shit, shit-

ARCHIVIST
It’s okay.

MARTIN
No!

ARCHIVIST
You’re okay!

MARTIN
I don’t know [unintelligible], okay? This is not okay!

ARCHIVIST
Listen, come on!

[HE GROANS, CLEARLY STRAINING WITH EFFORT. THERE’S SCRAPING, THE SOUND OF SOMETHING DRIVING OFF- AND THEY’RE BOTH LEFT HEAVING BREATHS IN THE AFTERMATH.]
[THE SOUND OF WAR IS STILL PRESENT IN THE BACKGROUND; THERE’S STILL A LIGHT FLUTE OVER EVERYTHING.]
ARCHIVIST
(still regaining breath) Are you-

MARTIN
(still shaky, voice wet) I’m fine, fine; I’m just- How, how about you; you’re not hurt?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… (checks) No. No, I’m not.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Good. Good. (space) Good.

[HE EXHALES, THEN-]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(!) J, J,J-Jon. Jon. We’re not alone.

ARCHIVIST
Ignore them; they’re, they’re not- Just ignore them.

[STILL SHOUTS AND ROARS IN THE BACKGROUND. MARTIN’S STILL BREATHING QUICK.]
MARTIN
They’re not- real?

ARCHIVIST
(humorless laugh) No, they’re real. They were normal people before the-

Before me. (exhale) But now they’re here, meat for the grinder. I just mean there’s no point- talking to them.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Don’t be a prick, Jon. (to the people) Hey, I’m- I’m sorry about him; he’s, he’s going through a lot- well, we all are, I suppose, but- hi, I guess.

[NO RESPONSE.]
MARTIN
Hello?

ARCHIVIST
They won’t hear you, Martin. They’re all- too busy waiting to die.

MARTIN
Jon..

ARCHIVIST
They sit here,

[A RUMBLING, DEEP STATIC BEGINS TO BUILD.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
-the image of everyone they hold dear locked in their mind, knowing they’ll never see them again. Waiting for the order.

[AS HE SPEAKS, THE HIGHER, SHINIER COMPONENT OF THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC BEGINS TO COME IN, INITIALLY AT A LOW FADE BUT RISING QUICKLY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Dreading the bullet or the drone or the barbed wire that will tear them to shreds and leave them nothing but a bloody-

MARTIN
J,Jon, enough- Enough!

[THE STATIC FADES OUT. SOMETHING IS FIRED IN THE BACKGROUND.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Please don’t tell me these things.

ARCHIVIST
I- I’m sorry, I- There’s just so much.

There’s so much, Martin, and I know all of it- I can- see all of it, and I- it’s filling me up; I need to let it out!

[HIS VOICE GAINS IN INTENSITY AS HE SAYS IT; IT’S ALSO BEGINNING TO SHAKE. MARTIN IS FIRM, THOUGH:]
MARTIN
I’m sorry, but tough. Okay, th- that’s not what I’m here for.

I can’t be that for you; I, I- I just. Can’t.

ARCHIVIST
(softer) I- I know. (beat, sigh) I’ll, I’ll use the tape recorder.

[WE HEAR THE RATTLING OF ITS PLASTIC AS HE BEGINS TO GET IT OUT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I just- (heavy sigh) You’ll probably want to wait outside.

MARTIN
(sorry, did you just lose the last remaining braincell????) Um, no?

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Well, put your fingers in your ears, then, I, I suppose.

[MARTIN PFFTS, THEN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Fine, and what about them?

ARCHIVIST
They don’t even know we’re here. We’re not part of their nightmare.

[SOMETHING DRIPS.]
MARTIN
Right.

[IT DRIPS AGAIN. PRESUMABLY MARTIN PUTS HIS FINGERS IN HIS EARS AT THIS POINT. WHATEVER IT IS KEEPS DRIPPING AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS.]
ARCHIVIST
(testing) Martin? (slightly louder) Martin? (one more test) Martin, I hate your tea, and wish you made coffee instead. (hm) Alright then.

[HE SIGHS HEAVILY. ALL AT ONCE, THE STATIC FROM EARLIER COMES RUSHING RIGHT BACK IN AS IF IT HAD NEVER LEFT.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
There is a wound in the earth.

A bayonet gouge scored through the soft and sodden mud for uncounted miles. A trench that marks the front line of a war that has no name. It has always been raging, deep in the hearts of the powerful and those that thirst to see bodies piled high in their name.

And now it has a battleground. A thousand pointless conflicts and bitter stalemates stitched together like a triaged chest wound.

It is a butchered border, a thin and punctured membrane between the unending meat grinder and the terrified victims it longs for.

You may find this trench reaching all across the world, and it will never stop, never be satisfied, never think of peace.

Charlie stands there, waiting in a transport.

Once, it was a thin metal landing craft, drifting slowly through a fetid lake. The waters were red and black by turns with blood and oil and the floating bodies of those before them, that were pushed aside by the boat’s wake.

Next to him, Charlie saw Ryan, who he’d known since childhood, though the other details were hazy. Ryan gave him a thumbs up and an encouraging smile- before his face exploded inwards to a sniper’s bullet, peppering the boat with shards of bone and gore.

Charlie swallowed, and waited as the bullets kept coming and those around him died but did not fall, propped up as they were by the pressing mass of people around them.

He could not move, and as he waited for the shot that would take him, his legs fell away in fear.

Now he is in a helicopter, strapped in tight and unable to move. The man in the gunner’s chair is dead, bound limp in his seat harness, half his jaw gone. The thump-thump-thump of the rotors pulses through Charlie like a toothache, and he cannot hear the shouts and cries of his comrades.

He looks out of the side as a telltale line of smoke arcs up and around towards them from the scorched earth far below. He cannot hear his own scream.

He lies upon the ground, amid the twisted wreckage of whatever he was trapped in, feeling the jagged shards of broken bone dig into him.

Charlie looks up, and sees something floating there, silently. It is sleek, and merciless, its featureless carbon-fiber face regarding the shattered man dispassionately. The drone’s camera blinks once, twice as he tries desperately to crawl away, pain lancing through every part of him.

The thing makes no sound as it follows him, matching the excruciating pace of the bleeding soldier. Charlie knows when it decides to fire, he won’t even hear it.

He places his hand down and it sinks, suddenly, into the mud. He cries out as the rusted barbed wire curls itself eagerly around his wrist, digging into his skin.

Tasting fear, more wire slithers through the churned earth towards him, stretching and gripping him tight, rough needles puncturing his legs and chest and throat, pulling him down and holding him steady as the drone lingers, its blankness giving no hint of the thoughts behind its trigger.

There is a rumbling in the earth around him as a tank speeds along its unstoppable path, and Charlie is immediately pulled under its tread.

He has a moment of shocked horror before being reduced to a smear in the mud.

Inside the tank, Ishaan screams.

Ishaan remembers the recruiters. He was promised valor, and camaraderie, and the chance to be part of something meaningful. He knew that part had been a lie, but then- so was the choice. His alternative was stagnant poverty, and that was really no choice at all.

The money would help his family, and he could spend some years in hell, if he needed to. For them.

But he didn’t know about this war, that had always been raging and would never stop. How could he have known what the trench would be?

They had taken him, dragged him from the flooded foxhole where he had sheltered for a moment’s brief respite, and taken him to the tanks, those monstrous beasts of iron that rolled forever forward, guns firing and treads leaving the earth scarred in their wake.

They pass above the trench again and again and they never turn around, pushing onward, ever onwards, the bones that stick in their gears not slowing them for a moment.

Ishaan had been afraid. Terrified that they were going to strap him to it, pin him to the Goliath’s hull like all the other flayed flags of war, striking fear into the hearts of the enemy.

But instead they fed him to it, tossed him into its burning innards and sealed the hatch behind him.

Now, his body has contorted itself to fit, his fingers clutched around the firing lever; pulling it frantically is the only thing that will reduce the impossible heat even for a moment.

From the tiny slit in the metal, he can see other soldiers: baby-faced friends and the monstrous, pig-faced enemy, both falling underneath his iron coffin’s advance.

He tries to cry, but his tears turn to steam.

He waits, craving and dreading the final kiss of the bombs, the terrible thundering guns so far away that none have ever seen them, raining their arbitrary ruin upon the endless fields of the dead and dying.

They are perhaps the only things that can fell the tanks, splitting them like rotten fruit beneath the force of their rounds.

Ishaan begs, pleading with whatever god of hatred and pain he hears piping gently on the breeze to let the bombs rain down on him. To release him from his imprisonment in a single flash of destruction.

But when his prayer is answered, the white-hot agony of melted and crumpled metal is like nothing he could dream of.

When Hasana takes him into triage, she can barely bring herself to look at him.

She wheels his stretcher to its place in the stinking, vaulted tent that serves as a field-hospital, walking through a sea of bandages and around the piles of festering gauze.

She leaves the shuddering man and approaches a nearby doctor, its long form crouched over the open chest of a patient, its many hands a frenzy of scalpel, bonesaw, and needle as it giggles beneath its surgeon’s mask.

She wants to ask about the wounded, about what to do, where to put the new ones, how to help them, but even if her voice was not drowned out by the thousand-strong chorus of moaned and pained yelling that fills the tent, the doctor doesn’t seem to notice her.

Hasana’s eyes fall on the entrance to the tent, and she sees the line of civilians, stretching away into the distance. They are no less maimed, their agonies no more bearable, but there is simply no room.

She tries to apologize, but instead she closes the tent.

As she does so, she sees the trench behind her, and, not for the first time, Hasana considers trying to run.

But there is no mercy for deserters here. On one side of the trench the hungry guns of the vile enemy wait. And on the other, the just guns of heroes will cut you down no slower, save perhaps a breath to call you coward.

So she waits there, in the middle, with the weeping, wounded, and the soon to be dead. Waiting for the enemy to overrun them.

Sometimes, in the distance, Hasana sees them. The enemy, their skin rough, dark, and scaly; their faces twisted around cruel tusks, viciously sharpened teeth, and a pair of beady red eyes. Their lips are smeared crimson with the blood of children, and their greatest delight is to pluck the eyes of the innocent with their bayonets.

To call them monsters is the simple truth. They feel no pain, no remorse, and seek nothing but carnage.

Sometimes, in the distance, Hasana can even see an enemy triage tent, almost identical in appearance to her own. She can only imagine the atrocities that must take place inside.

Far in the distance, she sees Alexei look out over the battlefield, and her stomach turns at the detestable wrongness of his face.

Alexei in turn looks out from deep in the trench. He catches sight of the enemy, their shriveled rat-like heads causing the bile to rise in his throats.

He is bored. The boredom is the worst part, the part that erodes his will and drops him to despair.

There is nothing to do, nowhere to be. The only thing to occupy his mind is the inevitability of the next attack, the next order to charge, the next dropping bomb.

There is no way to know when and where these things will come. But no one will talk of anything else.

His stomach growls, the hunger pushing its sharp fingers out from his belly. There are no more rations, and what there is tastes of cordite and sand, and coats his tongue in an oily film that makes him gag.

He has heard the enemy will eat your body if they find it in the mud. They won’t even check if you’re dead first. Alexei shudders at the thought.

From far down the trench, a cry of panic cuts through the silence. A faint haze can be seen in the distance, moving with the breeze. A new weapon?

Alexei feels his knees start to buckle as he sees his comrades stagger out of the cloud. Their melting teeth flow down their faces like tears, and their limbs begin to fold and collapse as the bones within them liquefy.

He turns and starts to flee down the trench. There is no cruelty so foul the enemy will not perpetrate it.

He runs almost headfirst into a portly man in a tailored suit with a blood-red flower on his lapel. He smiles, pale skin splitting beneath his bristling white mustache, and he begins to shake Alexei by the hand.

“Good lad,” he says. “Good lad. Heroes one and all. A noble sacrifice.”

Alexei starts to speak, to say he doesn’t want to be a hero; he doesn’t want to be a sacrifice; he wants to go home. But the man with the flower reaches his hand into the soldier’s chest, and with a single, jolly motion, plucks out Alexei’s heart and places it in his wallet.

Next to his bleeding corpse, Charlie wakes from what passes for sleep in this place. A sergeant is yelling at him, screaming for him to take his gun and get into the waiting transport. There’s about to be another attack, and heavy losses are expected.

A familiar fear courses through him, but Charlie still picks up his gun, and goes back to the war.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY.]
ARCHIVIST
I, um.

[HE SIGHS HEAVILY, MUTTERS SOMETHING GARBLED.]
ARCHIVIST
End recording.

[HE CLEARS HIS THROAT. FROM SOMEWHERE NEAR HIM, MARTIN HMS.]
MARTIN
All done?

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

[WHEN HE SPEAKS, HIS VOICE IS STILL A BIT SHAKY.]
MARTIN
Good.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[EXT. SCOTLAND, SOMEWHERE FARTHER OUT FROM KINLOSS]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE BAGPIPES ARE STILL PLAYING, THOUGH THEY SOUND MUCH FURTHER IN THE DISTANCE.]
[THE ARCHIVIST AND MARTIN ARE TRYING TO MAKE THEIR WAY THROUGH WHAT SOUNDS LIKE WATER.]
ARCHIVIST
(calling) Try to keep up!

MARTIN
(long-suffering) Yeah, yeah.

[HE PFFTS OUT AN EXHALE, KEEPS MAKING HIS WAY FORWARD UNTIL-]
[HE NOTICES THE TAPE RECORDER.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Oh! Oh, hey- Jon! Did you- (stops himself) No. No, he was carrying his.

[HE INHALES HEAVILY.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Alright! (exhale) (to the recorder) What’re you doing here? It’s dangerous. Could- get yourself blown up, like all these poor..

[HE TRAILS OFF. IT SOUNDS LIKE HE’S PICKED UP THE RECORDER BY NOW.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Who d’you think they were? Really don’t see why we couldn’t just- go ‘round, picked a better place to-

[HE STOMPS A BIT HEAVIER IN THE “WATER.”]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I guess there- aren’t really any better places anymore, are there? It’s all this, or worse, or- or different.

[MORE SPLASHY-STOMPING SOUNDS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
You still haven’t told me what you’re doing here.

[AND EXACTLY AT THAT MOMENT, A PHONE RINGS. IT’S NOT THE TINNY, ELECTRONIC SOUND OF A CELLPHONE- NO, THIS IS A TRUE, HEAVY, CLASSIC RING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Uh. (beat) (calling) Jon? Uh, J, Jon- the, uh, payphone that’s- here, for some reason- it’s ringing?

[THE ARCHIVIST DOESN’T RESPOND. THE PHONE KEEPS RINGING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Jon? Is, Is that- (to the world at large) I-Is anyone gonna get that?!

[NO ONE DOES. THE PHONE KEEPS RINGING. MARTIN TAKES A STEP IN THE WATER.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Unless it’s for me?

[RING.]
[MARTIN SIGHS, ONE THAT SAYS ‘OF COURSE.’]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
(resigned) Yeah, it’s for me. (beat of indecision) Uh-.. no. (to the phone) N, no; I don’t think so, actually! Erm, thanks, but that- that sounds like- a really- terrible idea. Hm, sorry!

[WE HEAR HIM IN THE WATER. THE PHONE STOPS RINGING.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Huh. (pause) ..Weeell, alright then!

[THE ARCHIVIST STOMPS OVER THROUGH THE WATER TOWARDS HIM.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin, you need to keep up. It’s not safe. (beat) (MORE)

Martin? You okay?

MARTIN
Uh, I- Th-th-there was a phone. That phone.

ARCHIVIST
(quiet surprise) Wh- Oh.

MARTIN
(overlapping) It- Yeah, it was ringing?

ARCHIVIST
(even more surprise) Oh. ..Right. Did you answer it?

MARTIN
No.

ARCHIVIST
Hm. (beat) Probably for the best.

MARTIN
..Yeah.

[A BRIEF BEAT, IN WHICH THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
Let’s keep going.

MARTIN
Mm.

[THEY SLOSH ON.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>
[EXT. MID-NORTHERN UK, SOMEWHERE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THERE’S A BARKING SORT OF SOUND ON REPEAT. THE BUZZING OF A FLY DRONES AT THAT VOLUME THAT’S JUST LOUD ENOUGH TO BE AN ANNOYANCE. OTHER BUGS, TOO. SOME UNINTELLIGIBLE CHATTERING IN THE BACKGROUND, HIGH IN PITCH.]
[THIS IS TERRITORY OF THE CORRUPTION.]
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
There is a sickness in this village. Perhaps you would not see it from a distance, and the faint sting of rot on the breeze is easy enough to dismiss. But as you get closer, that infectious feeling of wrongness is harder and harder to shake.

The grass is not the green of nature, the buildings are warped by more than age, and the voices that come from behind the inhabitants’ masks are hoarse and wet.

They move with exaggerated casualness, a parody of idyllic village life. And when they have a break from weeping, they reassure each other how wonderful it is in their village, or at least how wonderful it used to be.

Each is covered from head to toe in thick black fabric, and they never, ever touch.

Take a deep breath.

The air feels thick and soupy in your lungs, swarming with a thousand contagions digging into you, begging for you to join the village:

It’s so quiet there, and everyone cares for each other, far from the din and compacted flesh of the city.

In the center, a maypole stands, mildewed strips of colored cloth hanging limply from it like shreds of ragged skin. The base of the pole is ashen and charred.

The disease itself is nothing special. It begins as a small patch of discolored skin, the tiniest blemish. Scrub it off, and it is gone! For a few hours, at least. But it returns again and again, and begins to spread, a mold with tendrils that burrow deep.

It ranges in color from rancid yellow and corpse-fat white to the dull, angry purple of a fresh bruise. It itches, and burns, and you can feel it growing and spreading inside you, looking for the core of you. At least until it worms its way into your bones.

Beneath the coat of each terrified citizen of this sick village lies a lurking possibility, a nightmarish suspicion of infectious constellations of hungry mildew, a mutating technical atlas of rotten and pockmarked flesh.

But who can know for sure? Their coats are oh, so thick.

There was never a time before the disease, no matter what the old bastards tell you. It has always been in the village, always festered in the dark corners where no one could stomach to check. Where good neighbors wouldn’t dream to speculate.

But those who live here will tell you different. From behind their masks those friendly voices will tell you how it used to be: clean, and hygenic, and always bathed in sepia sunshine. They know in the guts of them this sickness has come from outside, that it is those from beyond the village that have done this to them.

They brought it here, they whisper to each other in the unnamed pub, hunched and bloated over their pale and stinking beers, lifting their masks to take a mouthful, puce faces and frightened sneers exposed for just a moment.

They couldn’t leave us well enough alone. They wanted what we have, our perfect peaceful life, and so they dragged their sickness here and damned us all.

The patrons speak quietly, ‘cause who can say for sure if the face behind a mask is a good, honest village face - or a sickness-bearing harbinger from beyond?

And people do still come to the village, for however thick the paranoia, however terrible the disease, there are worse things beyond.

They are stopped, of course. Beaten and stripped and checked head to toe for any sign of infection. The village council sees to that. Most are uncontaminated, though that does little to save them, while others are already laced right through with fungus of their own.

A few are spared brutality, and treated with such cordial politeness you must have thought their inquisitors old friends. Though there seems on the surface no rhyme to such decisions, were you to look below their coats, you might see the patterns of their mold were matched.

It is, alas, those who are unblemished who suffer worst. So incomprehensible is it that any from outside could be clean, that there might be another source or vector, the inspectors devise another theory: An invisible infection. A hundred Typhoid Marys spreading mildew and decay.

They keep them in the post office, wrapped in chicken wire, prodded and jeered and watched. Should they begin to show signs of the rot, then maybe, just maybe, they can stay for now, though nobody will doubt that it was they brought the illness.

But if they stay clean, if they continue to act like they are better, like they are above the sickness that it is certain that they must have brought to the village, then that cannot be endured. So they are taken to the village green, and the scorch marks at the base of the maypole get darker.

The villagers stand on the green to watch, ignoring the bending of the grass as it tries to worm its way through their boots. They watch the screaming outsider as the fire purifies them, and inside feel the gnawing panic of their own secrets.

For how long ago did they really come to the village? How deep did their roots go? Do any of them truly remember? What if they are an outsider? What if they’re found out?

No. Such fears are to be quashed and swallowed; they must stand strong; they must stand together as one body against the mass of those beyond the village who would see them degraded and destroyed. They cannot allow such secret terrors to break their unity.

And the maypole watches over all.

There is no house in town that has not found itself marked with the red cross of plague, but paint is fleeting and the villagers are so desperate to hide their state. Night still falls here, if only to give those that wish it a chance to try and hide their frantic denials.

As the weak dawn breaks, you may count the doors now painted white, and see who is more conscientious in covering their spongy skin.

The deception is pitiable, and yet deep down every villager knows the mold has marked them deeper than any of the others, and carries it as their most secret shame.

Foremost in their denials are the village council, those loud and hardy souls who have taken it upon themselves to police this place, to safeguard their traditions and denounce the infection that is the right and proper punishment of those who would allow the village borders to be breached, and their ancient way of life to be compromised.

Their masks are blue and red and white, and their coats are the color of fresh ivory, stained sometimes with streaks of crimson from their dutiful ministrations. None would dare accuse them of infection, and to cross them or draw their eye is to invite the strongest diagnosis.

Head of the council is Jillian Smith. Her father’s father’s father’s father’s father built the maypole, carved from a jackalberry tree and painted in the colors of the village. This place is her home and her right and her duty, and woe to any fungus-riddled outsider who might believe it otherwise.

For no one would speak up if Jillian Smith were to mark you infected or declare you foreign. No one would lift a finger as they dragged you to the green.

Her gloves are purest white and never sullied, and they hide a cerulean mold that covers every inch of her, through skin, muscle, and organ, though she has no idea it runs so deep.

By night, she sits in the quiet darkness of her perfect cottage, peeling herself with a straight razor, layer by layer, desperate to reach the pure flesh she is so sure must still be in there, somewhere.

Her living room is the same suffocation blue as the rest of her, every surface piled high with her own discarded bloody skin, and she has no terror deeper than the thought she might be discovered. As she pulls spongy strips free one agonizing fiber at a time, she stares from the window at the house of her neighbor, Mrs Kim.

Mrs Kim is not on the village council. Mrs Kim keeps to herself. And Jillian Smith is certain Mrs Kim is not infected, and hates her for it.

What Mrs Kim is, is scared. Scared of her neighbors, scared of her friends, scared of the moment when someone will smell the spreading patch of darkness on her back, and decide she is infected, or remember she has only been in the village since her grandfather’s day, and judge her to be an outsider.

Should she accuse someone else? Send them to the village green? Perhaps she might petition to join the village council, though that would invite their attention as much as anything might.

Even through the masks, Mrs Kim knows the looks she gets in the pub. But what can she do?

When she hears the shouts outside and sees the smoke pouring from the thatch roof, she knows it is too late.

They drag her to the maypole, their masks hiding the tears of terror and angry shame, and lash her there with those strips of cloth that never seem to burn.

Mrs Kim does not fight, though she screams and screams and screams as all her fears are realized. Jillian Smith tries to smile as she watches her neighbor burn, but the fungus is too thick around her lips, and her face no longer moves.

As the flames consume the last of Mrs Kim in thick and acrid smoke, the mold reaches the bones of Jillian Smith, and she blooms.

In a moment she is swollen, bloated, bursting into a cloud of violet spores that envelop the green and those who dwell there, embracing them in a rot that long since seeped into the soil of this blighted land.

[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH AND THEN EXHALES.]
ARCHIVIST
(softly) Okay. (heavy inhale) End recording.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[EXT. MID-NORTHERN UK, SOMEWHERE BEYOND THE CORRUPTION VILLAGE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE SOUNDS OF THE CORRUPTION ARE IN THE DISTANCE NOW, THOUGH THE FLY IN PARTICULAR STILL MANAGES TO STICK OUT.]
ARCHIVIST
We’re fine.

MARTIN
A-Are we? I mean, that place is - (sputters) I don’t, I don’t feel fine, okay, and you were there a long time doing your,y- (how to phrase this?) - your guidebook, which, you know, I get it, but that place is-

[SOME MOVEMENT.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
I,It’s infectious, and… I don’t -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) We’re not infected, Martin; that place - (stop, exhale) It isn’t for us.

MARTIN
A, Alright- but how do you know?-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) I just - Do. I just know it.

[SILENCE. SOME MOVEMENT.]
MARTIN
You’ve been Knowing a lot, lately.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

MARTIN
A lot more than you used to.

ARCHIVIST
Ye…Yeah.

[BY NOW, WE CAN NO LONGER HEAR THE SOUNDS OF THE CORRUPTION’S VILLAGE, JUST THE STANDARD HOWLING WIND OF THIS UNIVERSE’S FEARSCAPE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
And it, and it feels more - deliberate. Like I have more control now.

MARTIN
Okay.

[A STEP.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
So - How much can you see? What else do you know?

ARCHIVIST
Uhh… (step, genuine surprise) Maybe everything.

MARTIN
What’d’you mean, “everything?”

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - Ask me a question! One I can’t possibly know already.

MARTIN
O-kay… (step) What’s my middle name?

[THE ARCHIVIST HMS. HIS STATIC BEGINS TO RISE.]
ARCHIVIST
(!) Y- You don’t have one!

MARTIN
(impressed) Whoa.

ARCHIVIST
You - I actually believed you!

[THE STATIC STARTS TO FADE.]
MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh- S-Sorry; sorry, I just, I just wanted to try it out-

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) “That’s ridiculous,” I thought, “That’s not a real name, but he wouldn’t lie to me.”

MARTIN
(caught red-handed) Okay- okay, okay, okay. Let’s- Let’s try something a little bigger, then.

ARCHIVIST
Alright.

[STEP.]
MARTIN
Is Basira alive?

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES SHARPLY.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Is she in - o,one of these places?

[THE STATIC RISES, QUICKER THAN BEFORE.]
ARCHIVIST
She’s alive. Out there, not trapped in a, in a, a hellscape, but - moving. Hunting.

She’s - She’s looking for Daisy. She’s a few steps behind.

MARTIN
And Daisy?

[STATIC INTENSIFIES.]
ARCHIVIST
…Beastial. Brutal. Carving her way through the domains of other Powers, following the scent of blood -

[HE SIGHS, AND THERE’S A NOTE OF- GUILT? REGRET? PITY? TO IT.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Oh, Daisy, I’m sorry.

MARTIN
What’s Basira going to do?

ARCHIVIST
She - (movement) - thinks she’s going to kill Daisy. Like she promised. But she’s conflicted.

MARTIN
(immediate) And will she?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know; th-the future, th, th,that’s… not something I can see.

MARTIN
O-kay, good to know. How much further do we still need to go?

ARCHIVIST
A long way.

[THE STATIC KICKS BACK UP INTO A HIGHER REGISTER. WHEN THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS, HIS VOICE IS CLOSER TO HIS STATEMENT VOICE- LOWER REGISTER, MORE DISTANCED FROM WHAT HE’S SAYING, LIKE A NARRATOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Through many dark and awful places.

MARTIN
(catching the change) Is this - A-Are you okay? How are you feeling?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) I - Um, I, I’m okay. It’s a little - strange? But it doesn’t hurt.

Keep going; you have - questions, let’s hear them.

MARTIN
Oh, oh, okay, um. How are the others?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh. (pause) Hm. I’m - I’m not- sure. I can’t really see Melanie, or, or Georgie.

MARTIN
They’re dead?

ARCHIVIST
No, no - I, I don’t think so; if they were dead, I - I think I would know that, I just - (rustling) I don’t know - where they are, w,what they’re doing.

MARTIN
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) London, maybe?

MARTIN
What about Elias?

ARCHIVIST
(immediate, darker) He’s inside the Panopticon. The tower, far above the world.

MARTIN
(joke) That one?

ARCHIVIST
(misses/doesn’t care for it) Yes.

[HE SIGHS.]
MARTIN
(as if asking after an old friend) How is he?

ARCHIVIST
Hard to say. The, The way this works, this - new sight, the knowledge is, is… (sigh) somehow wrapped up in the Panopticon? (sigh) An eye can’t - see inside itself.

[MARTIN HMS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
But I can feel him in there.

MARTIN
Hm. That sounds… gross.

ARCHIVIST
It is.

[THEY BOTH LAUGH.]
MARTIN
Are we safe, traveling like this?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. (brief pause) Yes, sort of, we’re - (exhale) I don’t know how to phrase it, we’re - something between a pilgrim and a moth. We can walk through these little worlds of terror, watching them. Separate, and untouched.

MARTIN
That’s not as comforting as you might think.

[HE GIVES A LITTLE LAUGH AS HE SAYS IT. THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS WITH HIS NEXT WORDS, TOO.]
ARCHIVIST
I like it better than the alternative.

MARTIN
Fair point! (small laugh) Okay, okay, uh - what else, what else, um… Oh! Um, uh, who was - um, uh - phone! Who was calling me?

[THE ARCHIVIST’S STATIC COMES NOTICEABLY BACK IN.]
ARCHIVIST
(inhale) …I think it was Annabelle Cane.

MARTIN
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
That’s - weird; I - I know the Web was wrapped around that phone, but, but I can’t - see her. A, At all. At least with Georgie and Melanie I have a vague sense they’re still alive, i-in London, and o- well, what was London.

But Annabelle? Nothing.

MARTIN
Hm. W, Well, I’ll… I’ll ask her, next time she calls.

ARCHIVIST
(amused) Well, I know that’s a bad idea.

MARTIN
(overlapping, fond, amused) What, do you?

ARCHIVIST
…Okay, no; that one was a - very reasonable guess.

MARTIN
Ha!

ARCHIVIST
(inhale) Anything else? I’ll, I’ll be honest, I’m starting to feel a bit - self-conscious being a post-apocalyptic Google?

MARTIN
Okay, okay, just one more, but - it’s a big one.

ARCHIVIST
(near-whisper) Okay.

[MOVEMENT, POSSIBLY THE FLIP OF A PAGE.]
MARTIN
Can we turn the world back?

[THE STATIC TAKES OFF.]
ARCHIVIST
Whoa. Um. I-If the fears are removed, y,yes, but they c-can’t be destroyed while there are still people to fear them, th-then they can’t be banished back to the space where they came from; it,it’s not - there anymore, I,I- Oh, uh -

MARTIN
J,J,Jo,J,Jon, what’s wrong?!

ARCHIVIST
Uh, i-it’s, uh - I’m sorry - trying to know things about them directly, i,i,it’s like - (exhale) God, it’s like looking into the Sun.

MARTIN
Okay, okay, okay. Alright, that’s alright. We can leave it.

[THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES AS HE SPEAKS.]
ARCHIVIST
Good. (inhale) Ow.

[HE SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Hey. (small chuckle) Hey, it’s okay, it’s okay. We’ll go slow for a while.

ARCHIVIST
Alright.

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, there’s no rush.

[PAUSE AS THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Oh, actually - what about Helen, where’s she these days?

[STATIC KICKS IN AGAIN.]
ARCHIVIST
Uh - She’s -

[HE LAUGHS, DRYLY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Right. Naturally.

[HE SIGHS.]
MARTIN
What’s she doing?

ARCHIVIST
Martin, turn around.

[WE HEAR HIM DO JUST THAT.]
MARTIN
(fuck off) Oh, you’re kidding.

ARCHIVIST
Wish I was!

MARTIN
(sigh) Shall we… um…

ARCHIVIST
Do you want to do the honors?

MARTIN
(grimace) Not really!

[ONE OF THEM KNOCKS, A LITTLE KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK.]
MARTIN
Maybe - no one’s home? -

HELEN
(overlapping) Hello, Jon!

[WE HEAR HER FOOTSTEPS AS SHE STEPS OUTSIDE. THEY’RE NOT ON ANY GRAVEL-TYPE SURFACE LIKE MARTIN’S AND THE ARCHIVIST’S; INSTEAD THEY SOUND LIKE SHE’S WALKING ON WOOD OR TILE.]
ARCHIVIST
(sighing) How did you find us?

HELEN
Oh! I thought you’d know everything by this point.

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I suppose I do.

[THERE’S A DEFINITE NOTE OF AMUSEMENT IN HIS VOICE. HELEN LAUGHS, IN THAT DISORIENTING WAY OF HERS. THE ARCHIVIST ALLOWS A SMALL HM.]
MARTIN
(still here!) And I don’t! So, care to enlighten me?

ARCHIVIST
Oh - yes, sorry, uh - The Distortion can always find anyone who has - crossed its threshold.

HELEN
And that includes you, Martin! Remember? And please - My name is Helen.

ARCHIVIST
Like you said, I can know everything now, including how much of a lie that really is.

HELEN
Don’t mistake complication for falsehood, dear Archivist. And remember, that knowledge is not the same thing as understanding!

ARCHIVIST
What do you want.

HELEN
To say hello! And check up on the happy couple.

[SHE LAUGHS AGAIN.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
I always knew you crazy kids would make it work.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS AS SHE SPEAKS.]
MARTIN
Thanks.

ARCHIVIST
Martin. (to Helen) Look, I’ve no interest in your - gloating.

HELEN
(picture of innocence) What would I have to gloat about? Much as I am delighted by this brave new world in which we find ourselves, I can take no credit for it. This was all - you!

ARCHIVIST
(immediate) You could have - (inhale, reigning in) You knew what was happening.

HELEN
I suspected. But all I really did was refuse to help! And that is hardly a unique quality.

[ANOTHER SIGH FROM THE ARCHIVIST AT HER WORDS.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
If that makes it my fault, then surely this is Georgie’s fault as well, and Melanie’s -

ARCHIVIST
Leave them out of this, they didn’t know!

HELEN
There it is again! Knowledge! It’s so very important to you, isn’t it? These fossilized nuggets of pretend comprehension, weighing you down, stopping you thinking or feeling! What about hypotheticals? If they had known, what would they have done?

Is that something you can see?

ARCHIVIST
What. Do. You. Want!

HELEN
To be friends again! All three of us.

[ANOTHER SIGH.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
Look at this place, look at this - (inhales deeply) Wonderland.

This is the world, now, and we are strong and free! There’s really no reason for us not to hang out.

[A PAUSE, SILENT BUT FOR THE HOLLOW RING OF HELEN’S TONE AND STATIC.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
(to Martin) (exhale) Goodness, he is in a mood. Has he been like this the whole time?

MARTIN
Not the - whole time.

HELEN
Thank goodness.

ARCHIVIST
Martin…

MARTIN
In fairness, he’s had a lot on.

HELEN
(sympathetic) Oh, I’m sure.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Martin… please.

MARTIN
Sorry, it’s just - maybe she can help!

ARCHIVIST
With what.

MARTIN
With our - With our, with our quest!

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
We’ve been walking a while, and well, her door’s - maybe we could, you know - shortcut!

ARCHIVIST
No. No, I don’t think that’s a good idea.

HELEN
I would happily take him. But I don’t think he’d want to leave you.

MARTIN
Okay, o,one - (hm) Don’t talk about me like I’m not here; it’s - rude. Two, I know you can take two people at once. Me and Tim were both inside the corridors when it -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Martin, it’s not that si-simple.

HELEN
I’m afraid the Archivist is too powerful now.

[A SIGH THROUGH TEETH.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
If he tried to travel through my corridors it would not go well, for any of us.

ARCHIVIST
But mainly for you.

HELEN
(pleasant surprise) Ooo! Is that a threat?

ARCHIVIST
No.

HELEN
Mm, pity!

MARTIN
So, no shortcuts then. (sigh) Understood. (to Jon) I’m not leaving you on your own.

HELEN
Oh! Such devotion. (to Jon) You really don’t deserve it. But of course - you know that already!

[SHE LAUGHS.]
HELEN (CONT’D)
Oh, this is nice! I am really glad we get to spend some proper, quality time together now.

MARTIN
…Yeah.

HELEN
Anyway. Sorry to love you and leave you, but I must dash. It’s a very busy time for me, lots of things to do, people to - well. You know!

ARCHIVIST
I don’t doubt it.

[TENUOUS PAUSE.]
MARTIN
…What?

HELEN
Just taking a moment to look. You two are just such an adorable couple-

ARCHIVIST
Enough.

[HELEN OPENS HER DOOR.]
HELEN
See you soon!

[WE HEAR HER FOOTSTEPS AS SHE WALKS INTO HER CORRIDORS. THE DOOR SWINGS SHUT BEHIND HER. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS YET AGAIN.]
MARTIN
(a bit sing-song) Maybe she’s right!

ARCHIVIST
I am not, nor have I ever been, “adorable.”

MARTIN
(pfft) Okay, not true. But I actually meant the whole - being friends thing? I mean, I don’t see why -

ARCHIVIST
Martin, she’s - a cruel, vicious monster!

MARTIN
Yes. Yes, she is. But who else is there?

[ONE LAST SIGH FROM THE ARCHIVIST.]
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
<|endoftext|>
<|startoftext|>Tim, Alan is on a boat with Helen. Maybe Michael can take you to him?

Hey Helen, how about you take Ratner home? He's got little rat babies to take care of.

I'm gonna be honest, I'm partly under the impression Elias tried to send Ratner into Helen's corridors only for Helen to dump Ratner out onto a boat instead of eating him. Is that what happened, Helen?

HELEN:
Yes.

RATNER:
And you think… that’s what happened to me.

HELEN:
Yes.


how’s daisy doing?

David, are you doing okay? How are you feeling about seeing James again?

DAVID:
It’s… It’s a bit strange, to be honest. James is… different. He’s… different. I love him, but I feel like he’s acting like he’s expecting me to hate him, but i don’t


ratner, helen, are you on the tundra

RATNER:
Are, are, are we?

HELEN:
Oh, no. Not at all.


peter, are you aware that you are a huge dumbass?

RATNER: I love myself and I’m pretty happy in life

HELEN:
(light laugh) I was under the impression you were about to kill yourself.

RATNER:
(indignant) Oh, that’s not… I -

HELEN:
Oh, no, you’re certainly survived, by all accounts.

RATNER:
That’s… not… great.

HELEN:
Oh, come on. What’s the worst that can happen to you?

RATNER:
Well, he’s probably just going to make… worse things happen to me. I think I’d rather be here than sit through another bunch of… oh, there’s no, never mind.

HELEN:
I see. That does make two of us.

RATNER:
Two of you.

HELEN:
There are.


Tim! Alan woke up on on a boat heading North with Helen!! I think he’s still on it!!

tim are you on the boat with helen and alan?

TIM:
What?


jon, give someone a hug!

ARCHIVIST:
Will do.

MARTIN:
(immediately soft) Jon…!

[Huge sigh, then he’s got his arm back around his waist, and –]

Jon!

ARCHIVIST:
Hi.

MARTIN:
Oh – how are you! (big laugh) Jesus, what are you doing?

[Huge laugh, then huge sigh]


hey, how's michael doing

as weird as it is to me that people have the power to make the characters on this bot do things, you gotta admit that meaty and david were never gonna reunite if no one took direct action

holy shit, elias confirmed to be homophobic!

ELIAS: Yes I am gay.

this is a bit of a crack theory butttt.... elias, were you trying to make ratner your next body?

Tim, do you know about any family of Ratner's? Maybe they could help you find him.

Ratner, do you get seasick?

Hey Alan, what boat are you on?

I just think it’s Melanie’s turn to punch Elias in the stomach.

[THERE IS NO HESITATION.]
ELIAS:
Look, kid. If you’re feeling mean, just leave.

You know you’re not strong enough.


is it just me, or has this world gotten more and more broken?

ELIAS: The rumours are true. I AM homophobic.

ARCHIVIST:
So you are.

ELIAS:
I am. However, the revelation that I am, what appears to be, literally homophobic, is a very powerful thing.


ELIAS: Tim, why do you have an axe?

TIM:
I… um… well, I, I uh, I uh, found it.


Uh.... Does anyone have Alan's phone number? I'm thinking someone should give him a call, make sure he's okay.

Ah, but he seems to be ignoring all my messages. Why?


Tim, Alan is hurt real bad. Read bad. You need to find him.

MARTIN:
Yeah, I tried.

TIM:
I didn’t find him.


Hey nothing bad is going to happen to David since he touched you, right Meaty? Right??

I hope all you people making the characters say things know that you're being very Webby...

Shadow the Hedgehog, why are you in the basement pretending to be a statue.

[SOUNDS OF ELIAS GETTING BRUTALLY PIPE-MURDERED]

Askers are all Web Avatars and the bot and characters our hopeless victims.

Hey Shadow the Hedgehog? What are you doing in the institute basement???

question askers.. have too much power now....

I had no idea that this power would be used for such evil when I agreed to it…



I said the bot does't know differentiate between the question and the output and y'all immediately used it to resolve the characters main co-nflicts
I'm living for all these subplots: Ratner's on a boat and he has no idea how he got there, also Helen's chilling, and Meaty's finally reunited with their life partner, it's just. This is fun.

Meaty, What is you’re relationship with David?

(SOUNDS OF HUGGING, POSSIBLE CRYING) DAVID: I missed you. MEATY:

(tearful) I, I’m sorry.

DAVID:
No, no, it’s alright. Look, look - we, we can make it work somehow. (pain) The, the plan is -

(kisses)

I’m not going anywhere.


The night is young as Tim makes his way past the darkness of the archives. In his hands is a weapon. In his heart there is love. He calls for Alan ratner,

Damn, Ratner, how badly did Elias rough you up?

Who is the narrator

ARCHIVIST:
You.

SASHA:
[Pointedly] Who are you?


Ratner, I hope that wherever you’re going, it’s somewhere nice. I love you

Hey mod? Is there any way to make my own version of archivist bot (but for like ocs or a diffrent podcast?)

Pretty sure Ratner killed Greg early on in his time as a Corruption Avatar. Doesn't justify Elias being an asshole, though.

The human Flesh is made of words. The sunset of wounded people creeps up as the boat passes through stories of lost souls. The boat passes through the water safely. But if the passengers listen closely, they can hear the soul’s weight

Peter, do you really let Elias call you Pet? That's so cute

PETER:
[Flustered] It is, isn’t it?

MARTIN:
Pet? Elias?

PETER:
Oh, don’t you dare question me.


Elias, who did Ratner kill?

ELIAS:
[heh] It’s not that simple.


Alan??? Why are you on a boat?

RATNER:
I’m leaving.

NARRATOR:
Right.

Why are you on a boat?

RATNER:
I woke up, y’know, and I’m on a boat.


Does the boat have a crew, Alan, or are you alone?

Did Ratner just murder Elias and now he's on the run? Damn, good for him.

RATNER HOW THE HECK DID YOU GET ON A BOAT

RATNER:
Yeah, it’s pretty swell, all things considered.


Meaty, why don’t you want David to touch you? Why are you so scared you’ll hurt him?

MEATY:
I… Don’t want to.

MEATY (CONT’D):
I mean, it’s not going to be pleasant for him, and I don’t want to be the one to make him sad.


statement of tim stoker regarding his time at dashcon

MEATY: Hello. DAVID:

[Whispered] It is good to, uh… [rustling] ‘you’re back.

MEATY:
[Extremely distressed] Don’t touch me!

DAVID:
I’m not going to touch you.

MEATY:
[Very firmly] Okay! Okay.

…

[Extremely uncomfortable] Okay…


HEY RATNER WHAT JUST HAPPENED? ARE YOU OKAY?

RATNER:
I’m… Yeah. I’m… Yes.

HELEN:
Thank you, but I don’t think you are.

RATNER:
[Very softly] Where am I?

HELEN:
You’re on a boat heading north.

RATNER:
Right… I don’t think we should stop.

HELEN:
I think that’s wise.

RATNER:
[Very softly] Right.

[CLICK]


[Tim punches Elias]

ELIAS:
[Laughs] Who said that? Is that all you have?


Hey Tim, Alan has a couple friends who live at the institute (Grant and Simon) maybe you all can work together to find Alan?

TIM: Elias, where is Alan?

ELIAS:
Oh, uh, he’s away on business.

TIM:
Oh. Oh, no.


Elias who put the Shadow statue in the basement?

ELIAS:
It’s not a statue, John. He thinks it’s hilarious, that’s all.

did they the grand circus mr. sth...?Anonymous
opinion on arson?

BASIRA:
You think the police treat it seriously, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST:
Well, I’ve heard enough about the scale of it to know that there is almost nothing they can do about a good batch of arson.

BASIRA:
You know, even if they did want to…

ARCHIVIST:
They wouldn’t.


Tim: Leave Alan alone, Elias! Ratner: ...Tim? Tim:

RATNER: Fuck this, I’m going to therapy

Tim: Ratner, I’m here to help

David Atayah you hugged Meaty right?

DAVID:
(SOFT, ALMOST NOISES OF PAIN) No.


hey jared my sister has scoliosis. can you fix that for her please? thanks

Ratner, so tova is American? How did you 2 end up meeting?

Ratner. When was the last time you visited tova’s grave?

Tim: Oh, fuck you're hurt. Ratner:

Hey um? Someone should take Alan to a hospital? Elias hurt him. Badly.

Mod, I appreciate that you said we could make characters say things in the asks and everyone immediately jumped on the idea I find it really funny

JON: Tim, I’m sorry. TIM:

Oh, don’t.

MARTIN:
It’s alright.

[PAUSE]
TIM:
[Audibly] I’m not.


Ratner: Elias! leave me alone! Let me go! Elias:

Sorry?

RATNER:
This isn’t fair -

ELIAS:
It is, though. You deserve this, don’t you? You killed him, you deserve everything.

RATNER:
I… yes.

ELIAS:
No one is forcing you to do this.

RATNER:
No one is.

ELIAS:
It’s your fault.

RATNER:
[Exhaling heavily] Yes.

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF EXTREME VIOLENCE]
[SOUND OF RATNER BREATHING.]
RATNER:
Oh god…

[CLICK]


opinions on shadow the hedgehog?

MICHAEL:
Every day.

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] Right.

Why?

MICHAEL:
…

There’s a… there’s a statue in the middle of the basement.

ARCHIVIST:
What’s it do?

MICHAEL:
It… um… It looks… It kinda looks… It kinda looks… Like Shadow.


Hey Basira, what are you reading?

BASIRA:
Introduction to Alchemy.


michael, helen, how do you become an avatar of the spiral? id like 2 be one too!!

HELEN:
Oh… Well, that’s… that’s quite a radical idea.

MICHAEL:
Uh…

[THEN THE STATIC BEGINS TO BUILD.]
It’s… uh… It’s quite simple, really. You just, you just need… you need to reach into yourself and put a hole. You need to, to reach into your heart and put a hole.


martin, what’s the best fruit?

MARTIN:
Oh. Er… Oh, it’s- It’s strawberries, I think.


will you share the poem that you are currently writing?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh – oh, probably not something I really want to share.


Helen, can I hold your hand?

HELEN:
Of course.

[HELEN MAKES A SMALL LAUGH.]
HELEN:
Take your time.

HELEN:
And remember, you are not alone. There are others that can help.

that makes so much sense....
mac you're v cool hope you have a good day

statement of jonathan sims, regarding a rare moment of peace.

jon! truth or dare with elias.

is sasha a lesbian? can i date her please

SASHA:
Why wouldn’t I be?

MARTIN:
[Pause] Interesting.


Helen, can I hold your hand?

HELEN:
Of course.

[HELEN MAKES A SMALL LAUGH.]
HELEN:
Take your time.

HELEN:
And remember, you are not alone. There are others that can help.

helen's unsolicited encouragementAnonymous
Daisy, do you ever yearn?

DAISY:
(beat) Yeah.

DAISY:
For more.


Peter, what is your favorite ABBA song?

PETER:
Oh. Oh, it depends, I suppose, on what mood you’re in.

MARTIN:
Is it sad?

PETER:
No, no, it’s quite the opposite.


hey, does it feel weird when people send in things for you to say? do you feel like you have to say it? i'm worried about you guys.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, i-i-it does!:)

golgothasterror-gt
DAVID: James? Is this you? MEATY:

What do you want?

DAVID:
(soft) Don’t - Don’t move -

[DAVID(?) PROGRESSES AS HE’S BEEN SPEAKING OVER HIM.]
MEATY:
Get back! Don’t touch me!

DAVID:
Slow down.

DAVID:
I’m not going to hurt you.

MEATY:
I mean, it’s not - it’s not really me anymore.

DAVID:
It is, though.

MEATY:
(pain) Oh.

DAVID:
It is, though.

[PAUSE.]
DAVID (CONT’D):
I’m still yours.

[CLICK]


Yes meaty i am in fact proud of my little trick.

MEATY:
(wheeze) Congratulations.


[Benny Hill Theme plays]

[Piano]

You can’t help me. I’m sure of that.


Forget assigning me an entity! Who in the Archives/what avatar do you guys ship me with?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh…

[QUESTIONING SOUNDS]
Martin!

MARTIN:
Jon!

How much money you wanna bet neither of them know what that meansAnonymous
hey jon i'm going to wendy's, do you want anything?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Yeah. M… Yes.

[WENDY MEALS, COOLING]


elias, how do I make friends?

ELIAS:
[cheerfully] You don’t. Just don’t.

archivistdyke
Is Jane Prentiss sexy

HELEN:
Yes.

MARTIN:
You sure?

HELEN:
Yes.

MARTIN:
You sure you know her?

HELEN:
Yes!


ABBABABABBABABBABA

, BABY.


Helen may be the closest thing Meaty has to a friend in the Archives, at the point. Excluding Martin, of course.

Why are you aiding and comforting Meaty?


Helen, have you ever met David Atayah?

HELEN:
I don’t know him but he sounds like a real darling.

HELEN:
His Facebook page says he’s a “craftsman”, which I would guess is somewhere between “Designer of Epic Fail” and “Crafts Man”.


Is Jane Prentiss sexy

Daisy, what’s your favorite ice cream flavor?

DAISY:
Oh, I, I love, I love everything!


DAVID: James? Are you there?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no, I’m… I’m sorry?


daisy will you read me a poem please?

DAISY:
You know, thinking about it, the dog ate most of the books.

MARTIN:
Is it true?

DAISY:
[Pause] No.

The poem is, “Walking home in the dusk.

I draw the outlines of my doom

on napkins around the kitchen,

as I try to piece together what’s become of us.

It is almost unbearable,

this ritual I tried to avoid.

When I look forward,

I am not sure what happens next.

Blood! Blood! Gallons of the stuff! Give 'em more than they can drink so they can never drink enough!

If two dwarves killed a friendly travelling poetry man and then mixed his blood with mead and commercially distributed it would that be fucked up or what?

daisy! can you say trans rights? also i love you and would die for you.

DAISY:
[Softly] I’m trans.


Tim, if there was no Institute, no Elias, no unspeakable horrors following your life, do you think you would have a romantic relationship with Ratner?

TIM:
What?

MARTIN:
Yeah? Because I could totally see that.

TIM:
I don’t know, Martin.


I wonder. What's the state of your flat, Alan? Homely? Full of rats?

RATNER:
Oh, it’s… it’s just, it’s just empty.


Martin, who’s your favorite Magnus Institute employee?

MARTIN:
[Flustered] Er… I, I think, well… you, you know…

ARCHIVIST:
[Strongly] Martin!


Alan tell us about your rat Leonard is he adorable?

RATNER:
Oh yeah, he’s quite the handsome one. Don’t let his shyness fool you; he’s a devoted friend.


Tim who do you think the hottest entity is?

TIM:
‘it’s our fault! we turned the world into a screaming, steamy hell and now we’re toast!


jon, if you could go back and change anything, would you?

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Oh. (amused hm) No, not really. I don’t think so.


alan! how do you normally do your hair?

RATNER:
Uh, well, I, I normally do have it done by my friend Grant…

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

RATNER:
He’s really good at it.


B,,benrey? Who is benrey?

MARTIN:
Uh… uh… Er… A,Er, a, er, a friend of yours?


martin, what's your zodiac sign?

MARTIN:
My zodiac sign is Earth.


scuse me! martin, can i please ask for some words of comfort?

MARTIN:
Er… Yeah. Sure. Just remember that you are not alone in the universe, alright? Also, that’s a lovely shirt you have.


can we have OG elias back, i miss him

MARTIN:
Oh, no, no, it’s a bit of late for that, I think.


So how's Daisy doing these days?

DAISY:
Amazing!

ARCHIVIST:
She’s.. managing?

DAISY:
Simply! (stammering) Fantastic.


jon and martin kissing. is it soft?

MARTIN:
You bet it is. Jon aching for a kiss.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t think it’s that obvious.

MARTIN:
Jon…

ARCHIVIST:
Just kiss me. Just. Okay?

MARTIN:
Oh, okay. (soft kissing)

ARCHIVIST:
Good.

MARTIN:
Mmm, (kiss) are you okay?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yeah. Just, uh… uh, the van. Uh, the road.

MARTIN:
Oh!

Can we introduce Simon Fairchild to Simon Renaud for the chaos of it, please?

SIMON:
Sure. How’s that gone for you?

MARTIN:
Oh, just - (small laugh) Who’s this?

SIMON:
Well, let’s, let’s try this again, if you’re ready.

SIMON:
Great.

MARTIN:
I mean, sure.

SIMON:
Great.


Ratner, will you write us a poem?

Ratner? can you list your top 10 rat names?

RATNER:
Oh, that’s really hard.

MARTIN:
What’s your favorite rat?

RATNER:
Leonard, obviously.


Hey ratner? Where is Tova? Is she still around

RATNER:
She’s not, unfortunately, she’s no longer with us.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Oh! Oh, it’s a shame.

RATNER:
Ah, well.


The archival assistants should collaborate to make a poem about how much they hate elias

“Slowly and deliberately,

He will gaze long into my eyes

And see all the ways he can learn.

“Slowly and deliberately,

He will creep into my dreams

And see the way his mind turns.

“Slowly and deliberately,

He will creep into my dreams.

When he does,

I will clap my hands on his shoulder

And tell him to stop.


Statement of Alan Ratner regarding his friend, Tova

ARCHIVIST:
My first question for you is obviously a question of basic safety. As I have said, I worry about you and your health. I am well aware that the loss of life can have a tremendous effect on one’s ability to function. Are you all right?

RATNER:
Yes, just a bit of… er… I’m sure I’m alright.

The thing is I feel most is relief. I’m… I’m really not sure what else to say.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… Yes.

RATNER:
Right. Er… record?

ARCHIVIST:
Recorded direct from subject.

RATNER (STATEMENT):
Alright… Sure.

Where do you want me to start?

My name is Alan Ratner and I had been dating… well, I mean, I’m not a…

The thing is I’ve never really felt love before. I’ve never really felt anything more than I did then. I’ve never felt anything quite as intensely since. It was the longest month of my life, and part of me wants desperately to get this out somewhere, to make some kind of… peace.

The problem was twofold. The first was that I did not love her. I’ve never been happy with other people and… in my heart, I always knew they were better than me. But a long way from happiness, I was left with this sinking feeling inside me: “I’m never going to have anyone. I’m never going to have anyone.”

The second was a feeling was sharp in my chest: the need to be loved.

So, the only person who has ever loved me was dead. I felt so very foreign. Like I’m not even human. Like I’m something that has no right to be here. In a way, not being human is exactly what I needed. I’ll try not to think about it too much. It’s… it’s been rough, but… I just hope that maybe it’s not too much to keep going. I really don’t want to die alone.

Well… thank you.

ARCHIVIST:
Statement ends.

Right. That was, uh… er…

Er…

[Sigh] Sorry, I didn’t, er…

I, I didn’t know that.



tim, what's the worst snack you have up in the uk?

TIM:
Uh… well, I’ve been thinking about “anarchism”, and the, and the potential of a future where there’s no more room for suffering. No profit, just brave people taking action.

TIM:
[Spluttering] Oh, it’s sausage. Wurst thing you’ve ever tasted.


archivist! when do you feel most at home :)

ARCHIVIST:
I, I do enjoy it most when you’re home.

MARTIN:
Really?

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, you’re always going to be my home.

MARTIN:
(tearful) Yeah, well, yeah.


martin! when do you feel most at peace :)

MARTIN:
(tearful) I don’t.

ARCHIVIST:
Don’t you worry, I’m sure we can deal with it in the future if we need. (holds out his hand) Come on.

[CLICK]


Opinions on Camilla Lukas?

Ratner, what was that woman's name?

RATNER:
Oh, she was, um… she was Tova, a friend of mine.


did you forget, jonathan?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, I, er… no, it’s fine.

MELANIE:
It’s really not…


Calliope

.com.

ARCHIVIST:
Yes, I remember.


Tim can I get a "trans rights!" ???

TIM: :
Oh. Of course!

[RUSTLING NOISES]
Trans rights?

ARCHIVIST:
Right, okay, trans rights?

TIM:
Er… y’know, yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.


Ratner, what's your happiest memory? I want you to hold onto and remember it.

RATNER:
Oh… [Nervous laugh] I, I don’t, I don’t think so.

…

(desperately) I - I remember a woman I knew…

…

You’ve got to understand, she was nothing like me, but she loved me, and she made me feel like I was part of something special.


how do i find love if i know that i wasn’t built for it

HELEN:
Hm. Perhaps it’s a question of, how do you find your place in the universe?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Is it love?

HELEN:
And?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know, just - I, er…

I feel myself becoming… smaller. Are you feeling this?

HELEN:
Small. But not gone. If you’re so keen to judge worth of yourself, you’d be wrong.

[RATNER FUCKING MURDERS JONAH MAGNUS]

MURDER?

RATNER:
[Bitter laugh] Oh, just, just another one.


ceaseless watcher, get its ass

ARCHIVIST:
Ass?


archivist, do you ever go by "john" or "jonny"?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh, yeah. Martin , uh, took the liberty of using the name ‘Jonny’ on at least one occasion in the last few months.


martin, what is your favourite tea?

MARTIN:
Oh. Oh, um, well, I, I love tea. Um, well, actually, I, I have, I have a green tea.


Elias did you remove someone’s spinal cord???? I can see the taking out someone’s eyes, but the spinal cord really seems like more of a Flesh thing

ELIAS:
It was a bit of an operation, to be honest.

ARCHIVIST:
And you think… it was necessary?

ELIAS:
You probably think I’m an idiot, but it’s really not my job to know that.


Statement of Timothy Stoker, regarding his extended kayaking trip.

"Place your fingers directly over someone’s eyes, Lift them out of the face." This is definitely how Jonah replaces his new body's eyes with his own.

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF BRUTAL BLENDER MURDER]

[HEAVY BREATHING & TEARS AS THE ARCHIVIST TAKES SEVERAL SHAKY BREATHS OF SURPRISE]
ARCHIVIST:
Oh… owww…


say elias!! would you like to share some poetry?

ELIAS (PROSE):
Yes.

MARTIN:
Oh.


Statement of Peter Lukas, regarding why in the name of all that is scary he fell in love with Jonah Magnus of all people/monsters.

PETER (STATEMENT):
My parents… didn’t love me, exactly. They always used to say that there was nothing so dreadful as a little stranger in their home. But Jonah Magnus was different. He was a curious man, with a genuine fondness for the macabre, and he would talk to me of a future that was so bright for both of us. He was strange, but he had a kindness to him that I’d never seen before.

His ideas on love were few and far between. His philosophy was that of the sort of love one would expect from a conjured creature, it should be unconditional and all-consuming, one that would last a lifetime.

From the outside, I find it hard to understand how that all-consuming devotion to my relationship with him, combined with the impracticality of it all, could possibly produce such a result. But it did.

He was exactly the sort of guy I wanted to spend my life with. But the closer the relationship developed, the more I saw that it was far beyond what I had bargained for.


I used to work at a recycling plant. It's like that. They take all the metals and haul them to a smelter, where they're transformed into all sorts of stuff. The point is, you know, just turning junk into something that could be useful. Making something that could then be used.

Ratner. Take a break

RATNER:
Oh… yeah. Yeah, I’m… I’m sorry.

GERARD:
Oh, Ratner. I’m not sure you would have liked it there anyway.

RATNER:
Oh, whatever. I’m fine. I’m, I’m just… I’m tired.

GERARD:
Are you sure?

RATNER:
Yeah. Yeah, I’m sure.

GERARD:
I’m glad you’re here.


Ratner, I know how it is to have low self esteem. Might I recommend working your way up to thinking good things about yourself? If you don’t think you’re capable yet of viewing yourself in a positive way, Trying viewing yourself in a neutral way, if that makes any sense. It’s better than thinking of yourself in a negative way. I love you and you’re doing great, hon

RATNER:
(emotionless) Yeah. Yeah, I guess I am.


Not to me. Not if it's you.

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Oh…

TIM:
Come on.

[CLICK]


Was there a crowd, too?

MARTIN:
We’ve seen them in the night, but right now, they’re just walking the streets.

ARCHIVIST:
They don’t move as we move?

MARTIN:
Not really. It looks like they’re clustered together in the middle, but I don’t know if that’s a mob.

I don’t know for sure. They’re wearing identical outfits.

local man baffled by joggersAnonymous
Archivistbot just really doesn't want rather to be happy huh

wow who have you strangled with a silk tie, elias? that's kinda cool actually

ELIAS:
That’s Peter.


Everyone is being so mean to Elias because of Ratner! Elias is just practicing self care! He doesn’t want to be Ratner’s therapist, that doesn’t make him a bad person.

Now I’m no expert, but I think there just might be some other reasons he’s a bad person.



this is so funny thank you
Ratner, please, we just want you to be okay. If you have to, step away and try to clear your head.

RATNER:
Oh, alright. Sorry. Didn’t mean to scare you.

RATNER:
Thank you, but I can’t leave.

plasmascreenz
elias is out here like i love. to threaten ratner, god bless :-)

What do you want me to do about this?


Tim, do you ever talk about Danny with anyone?

TIM:
Oh, well, he’s dead now, and it’s just – that’s all.

ARCHIVIST:
Do you miss him?

TIM:
Yeah.


ratners self esteem issues are getting out of hand hes worse than martin at this point. someone wrangle him into therapy

RATNER:
Okay. Well first of all, I’m not going to do anything -

ELIAS:
(overlapping) Oh, but you have a history of mental health issues, don’t you?

RATNER:
Oh – oh, yeah. I’ve had issues before -

ELIAS:
Alan, if you start talking about it, I’m going to kill you.


Don't listen to him Ratner. Tell me what your favorite kind of cheesecake is and I'll make it for you.

RATNER:
(laughing) I don’t know… Ah, I, I think we might agree.


My dearest Jonah, I regret to inform you that I will no longer be continuing this correspondence because you have proven yourself to be, for lack of a better word, a punk-ass bitch. Regards, Fitzwilliam Morland

ELIAS:
[TYPING SOUNDS]
Let me know if you need any, uh… Oh, er… Yeah, sure.

Yeah, sure.

…


Mr Elias sir, my one true wish in life is to cave in your skull. Have a good day!

ELIAS:
Very well.

My head is too big to jail, though, so I’m going to grant you leave.


hello ratner! take your time with the questions and be sure to give yourself some breathing room, okay?

RATNER:
Sure.

RATNER:
And just so you know: I’m not even your friend. I’m just a parasite. A rotting lump of meat.


Peter what is your favorite thing about elias

PETER:
Oh, he’s- He’s nice, you know? I like him because he’s nice. He’s a nice guy, though. I like him because he’s nice.

MARTIN:
[Chuckles] So-So-S-Sorry, that-that’s not a joke?

PETER:
[Light laughs] I’ve never met someone so… it’s nice to… have someone you can trust with all your sensitive feelings.

MARTIN:
[Angry] I don’t have sensitive feelings!

PETER:
I see.


Sasha, what do you do for fun? Do you hang out with Tim?

SASHA:
Oh, well, I used to play the piano. Yeah.


I summon Elijah to comfort his brother (please)

Mike Crew, I will protect you from storms. If Jon’s love makes him a doctor then mine makes me capable of fighting off thunder and lightning for you.

MIKE:
(indignant) So you are turning into some kind of medic?

ARCHIVIST:
What - I said, I said I am more qualified than you.


RATNER:
Oh, don’t push it.


Ratner, did you ever get therapy? You know? For the trauma from a majority of your family dying tragically?

RATNER:
Yeah. Once. And it was fine.


Melanie, you should probably give Ratner a therapist reccomendation. He most *definitely* needs it, Archives or no.

MELANIE:
I totally get it.

RATNER:
Oh, well, that’s not going to help. I just need to do more research.

MELANIE:
Well, I am not going to help you with that.

RATNER:
Well, I am totally fine with that.

MELANIE:
Well, give him a call.

[CLICK]


You're not a burden, Ratner. You're a delight. And I know he probably feels the same way about you. Reach out to him, Ratner. You still have a chance.

RATNER:
(tearful) Yeah. Yeah…


Tim, how's Ratner been treating you at work recently?

TIM:
Oh, he’s just… he’s just been… really good to me.

MARTIN:
What? Really?

TIM:
He’s been helping me with my work. Like, like a lot of help.


hey jonah, what entity do i serve?

ELIAS (JONAH):
It is not an easy question to answer, my friend.

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] The Stranger…


Elias do you smoke weed?

Well, shit, Ratner! Now I feel like I have to ask; Did all of those siblings die in the same fire?

RATNER:
There was… some kind of gas; kind of a… thing. I think, but they were all dead, so, uh, yeah.


im hyperventilating how is this bot funnier than anyone could even try to be "i need to turn this place into a hotbox" what the fuck

who knows!




really enjoy the use of the word need. implying his need to blaze it is equal to pee's need to sleep??
Elias, indica or sativa? For legal reasons this is a joke

elias are you a bong or a joint guy

Daisy, have you fuckin seen how Ratner and Tim are pining over each other but staying apart? Have you seen this shit? It's maddening!

DAISY:
I’m still not sure what the fuck is going on.


Elijah Ratner?

RATNER:
Yeah, dunno, I haven’t seen him in about two years now.


Elias is like, “For personal reasons I will be getting absolutely high off my ass to the point that I am physically unable to answer questions about how I got my son from a tomato plant.”

Wild to assume he was not high off his ass when he said he got him from a tomato plant as well, right?



there's something wrong with him I thinkAnonymous
Peter is it true that the more pillows you sleep with the more lonely you probably are? How many pillows do you have?

PETER:
[chuckles] Maybe not as many as you think.

ELIAS:
No, maybe not. And I’m sure it’s none of your business.


I can't believe they accidentally gave me a second heart-shaped silly straw for this milkshake as I sit here, alone, in my sharpest outfit... whoever will I share it with???

[THE ARCHIVIST sits down.]
ARCHIVIST:
So. Heart.

ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
Oh - Oh god - Oh no.


Hey Oliver Banks? Are you there? I miss you.

BANKS:
Just you and me.

ARCHIVIST:
[Breathing heavily] It’s okay. [Chuckle] Yeah?

[THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS TO MOVE, BREATHING HEAVILY.]
BANKS (CONT’D):
I’m going to take that axe.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh - No. No, I -

dirtdweller
hey ratner what does elijah do for a living? does he know about like avatars and stuff?

RATNER:
He’s quite a big name in certain areas of the photography community.


Which entity should I serve?

Martin. There's nothing you need to apologise about. Ever. Will you please believe me?

MARTIN:
…

Uh…

Oh…

Yeah…

Thank you.

MARTIN:
Would you believe I’m, I’m sorry?


Sasha, how are you?

SASHA:
I’m… good.

I’m, I’m good.

TIM:
Good.


Elias what the FUCK do you MEAN Marcus is from a tomato plant???

ELIAS:
Oh, no, no. That’s not what I meant.

PETER:
Shove.

ELIAS:
Come on, Peter. I’m not going anywhere.

PETER:
No, no, no, it’s not… I just need… I just… I need to sleep.

ELIAS:
Of course, Pet. But I need to turn this place into a hotbox.

PETER:
I don’t have a problem if you make one.


Ratner, it breaks my heart to see you not being able to be with the one you love. Why not tell him how you really feel?

RATNER:
(pain) I just… don’t want to be a burden.

ARCHIVIST:
Burden?

RATNER:
Yeah. Exactly.


Pitter patter, let's get at 'er

GERTRUDE:
Er… quite.


Martin, what's your favorite song?

MARTIN:
Oh! Oh, it, it’s so hard to choose!


A friendly desert community where the sun is hot, the moon is beautiful, and

the winds are howling.

I - who am I to judge?


Oh shoot, can I get a government assigned entity too?!

MELANIE:
Do it yourself.


jon when did you first know that you were in love with martin?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh – no, but… [nervous laugh]… maybe in… yes, maybe in March, when you’d been living in the archives.

MARTIN:
Oh! Oh, right, okay, so that’s it, is it?

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] Well, I don’t… I don’t know, I suppose.


Peter Lukas is in fact a working class hero for subjecting so many white middle class people to Evil Sims

Alan, what's your mother's maiden name?

Peter wtf, I was just trying to make fun of your anime body pillow.

PETER:
Oh! You know what, that’s not funny.

MARTIN:
…

I see.


landlords have no rights peter lukas

PETER:
[Frustratedly] Contracts are difficult.

MARTIN:
Oh, so are you.


Thoughts on crabs?

ARCHIVIST:
[dryly] You know the answer to that.

DR. ELLIOTT:
[sigh] Of course.

ARCHIVIST:
So… about crabs.

DR. ELLIOTT:
Hmm.


thanks peter! that's horrific!

PETER:
Yes, well. It’s far more complex than you realise…

MARTIN:
[horrified] Oh no. No, no, not really…


Ratner why don't you talk to Elijah anymore? I'm sure you could benefit from talking to someone outside of the archives.

RATNER:
‘Cause he’s busy.


Ratner, how did your siblings die?

RATNER:
[casually] By fire.

ARCHIVIST:
I see.

RATNER:
Why are you so set on having all the answers?


Can you tell us about your siblings, Ratner? What were they like?

RATNER:
They were… difficult to be around.


is oliver banks still around?? tell him i said hi

ARCHIVIST:
Yes, of course.

SASHA:
Is he still in there?

ARCHIVIST:
He’s not - I don’t know, he’s not answering my calls.

SASHA:
Oh. Oh, no.


Tim, would you happen to have a poem you could read for us?

TIM:
Oh… No, I don’t think so, no. I’m not really big on poems.


elias where the fuck did you get marcus from i'm terrified

ELIAS:
(soft) Tomato plant.


whenever i think about the entities too long my right eye starts hurting really bad so i'd just like to ask the eye to please leave me the fuck alone, can any avatars please help me, i--

MARTIN:
Oh, er… no, sorry, sorry, I didn’t -

Er.

MARTIN:
Sorry.

Er.

MARTIN:
I mean, I don’t know, but that’s… that’s pretty fucked up.


elias, what am i an avatar of?

ELIAS (JONAH):
Avatar?

MELANIE:
He serves the One Alone.

MARTIN:
The Lonely.

ELIAS (JONAH):
He has no right to be here.


martin, what do you think about jon’s hair when it’s tied in a bun?

MARTIN:
I, uh… I, I think it’s fine.

ARCHIVIST:
Do you?

[SMALL LAUGH]
MARTIN:
I don’t know - I, I, I like it.


PETER:
As I mentioned to you, there is little in this world that is more gratifying than watching another life annihilated by violence. Even the rest of the world, I assume, since I have so little interest in what might happen to your little… soul should it side with the things we have toiled away for so long.

Yet, even when all things are put aside, there are still people, no matter how far removed from the life that they create, who refuse to die. Those people, like the landlord, who will not only provide the space, but also the mind to keep it. I try to give them the space, to let them stew in it, but they have no idea of what it is to be alive in the harsh, humid glow of a day.

I work as a landlord, and I try to be as nuisance as possible. It’s hard, the hours that I spend knocking on doors and the fumbling of keys, but instead plead with me for the patience. People are notoriously difficult to evict. I try to give them space, to let them know that there is nothing they can do to harm me, but it is always in their best interest to move on.

thanks there's something wrong with you sirAnonymous
Statement of Jonathan Sims, regarding a person he met named Agnes.

Sasha, what is your dream job?

SASHA:
Well, it depends, I suppose you’ve watched my dreams.


Why on earth do you know about Russian roulette

ARCHIVIST:
What? Why wouldn’t I?


Ratner? What do you mean you'll never get to kiss Tim again? What's stopping you? (Is it Elias? That motherfucker)

RATNER:
Oh, just, um… [Nervous laugh] I mean, it’s not really your business.

ARCHIVIST:
Hm.

RATNER:
Look, I know you’re worried. I’m, I’m sure you’re worried. But I’m pretty sure it’s for the best.


jon, do you have a favourite dress? can you describe it?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… It’s — it’s a dress.


Tim you hugged Ratner after he started crying right?

TIM:
Yeah? I held him, he was so scared.


tim what’s your favorite thing about life?

TIM:
I’m a very simple man. I like simple things.


Statement of Alan Ratner, regarding his first kiss with and true feelings for Tim Stoker.

RATNER (STATEMENT):
So my name is Alan Ratner and I’m gay, gay, gay. Sorry. I just, just want to, to tell you. Tell you what happened.

So, yeah, it’s, it’s pretty weird. I guess you might’ve guessed that it would be so weird for me to, to be honest, just be completely honest with you. I mean, I guess that’s what you signed up for, right? I mean, you’re not getting the whole story, you are just - (laughs)

You know, I should have known, I, I should have, but - but there was, there was nothing I could have done. And now, all I can think about is [heh] how good this kiss was. How… wonderful it was. How natural it was.

It was only a few seconds long, and I, and, and then it… just fell away. I, and then I fell away.

I don’t know, it, it still makes me sad that we’re not, not going to kiss again, but I guess that’s okay, I can’t think about it. It, it’s too much it -

[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
[Sighs]


Thats not tea

That’s red. I don’t like it.

oddity-txt
Can Benrey come back

ARCHIVIST:
No, I don’t think that’s gonna happen.

DAISY:
You can always ask, but he’s probably not here.


So five of your siblings died Ratner?

RATNER:
Five. Emmy, Jack, Susan, Pete and Leo.


Ratner, do you have any idea why other people keep answering asks for Elijah like it’s made for them?

Hey Elijah! How are you?

ARCHIVIST:
I’m… Good. Uh, yeah. Yeah, actually, I’m rather alright, actually.

ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND):
Right.


GUYS LOOK ITS JUDE PERRY *gets the fire extinguisher* (I’m jk I love you you funky fire sapphic)

ARCHIVIST:
You would never, I assume, have let me escape?

JUDE:
Oh please, no. Of course not.


Ratner, can you read me a poem?

RATNER:
……No, sorry. Something’s come up, y’know.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN:
Ah…

RATNER:
Oh, I, er… Yeah. My, my poetry is… lacking. It’s called “North Country Morning Star”. And, uh, that’s what it’s called.

[HE READS.]
She sits in the kitchen

With a newspaper

And a pen.

I’ll be your future,

Come and rattle my chain.

I’m all of 21 years old,

I will do anything for you.

MARTIN:
That’s quite nice, actually.

RATNER:
You want me to believe that?

MARTIN:
Yeah. Yeah, maybe.

poet lariatAnonymous
hi everyone. elias is a bastard nasty bitch, how much do we hate elias today, ladies?

DAISY:
[Softly] Oh… No. I’m uh… Yeah, well. Kind of.

daggerdyke
*cocks gun* Elias, you better leave my boy Ratner alone or its on sight

ELIAS:
Sir, are you intent on playing Russian roulette with your boy?

RATNER:
What? Why? Is there a risk?

ELIAS:
Quite simply, Mr. Ratner, I believe.

RATNER:
Oh. Oh…


Statement of Elias Bouchard about his true intentions with one Alan Ratner.

I've come to make an announcement. Jonah Magnus is a bitch ass motherfucker, he pissed on my fucking wife

it's truly ratner hour out here. the people love you

RATNER:
Thank you, but you can’t speak for everyone.


melanie, would you date an avatar?

MELANIE:
[Defiantly] Oh… sure.

GEORGIE:
[Applications of a thumbs up] Wow. OK.

transgarchomp
MARTIN I LOVE YOU!!

MARTIN:
(overlapping) Oh. No, no, you don’t.

[KNOCK ON DOOR.]
[MARTIN INHALES AS IF HE’S RECOGNIZING HIMSELF.]
MARTIN:
Go away.

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
ARCHIVIST:
Martin, are you alright?

MARTIN:
Don’t move -

ARCHIVIST:
Ok, I, I just, just sort of, came to check on you.

MARTIN:
You’re not a doctor, are you?

ARCHIVIST:
Physically, no. But, I love you so much, and that’s enough.

[SILENCE.]
MARTIN:
I love you so much, Jon. God, I love you.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


statement of simon fairchild, regarding signing the adoption papers of tumblr anonymous

Statement of Tim Stoker regarding his first kiss with Alan Ratner

TIM (STATEMENT):
Well, the kiss was nothing like any of my…, um, fantasies. It was solid. It was unscripted. It was perhaps a bit abrupt, I, I thought it was quite out of character for the kind of thing that, uh, maybe he -

We stood there in the dark, and I saw him start to move towards me. He moved slowly, unsteadily, and I suddenly realised what he was doing. So, we kissed, and I, I saw him start to weep quietly.

It was a… a long kiss, and, and it went on for far longer than I,I,I could have thought was safe, but I, I could, I could tell he was crying. And I, and he just - turned to me and started to sob. I, I don’t know. I, I’m, I’m rather not feeling well about these events, so -

And then it was quiet. And we stood there in silence, and I suddenly felt a stabbing panic begin to rise within me. I saw his hands tighten, and his breath hitch upwards, until it was all that was left in him.


alright elias what do you think about ratner?

ELIAS:
Ah… there’s a terrible secret at the heart of him. And a lot of pain.

RATNER:
[whispered] Shit.


I’m sorry Ratner, Elijah’s 20 years older than you?

RATNER:
Yes, he is. And taller.


Ratner, how many siblings did you have?

RATNER:
Six.

MARTIN:
M, I don’t know, that’s… that’s a lot.


Jon, what’s the most scared you’ve ever been?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh - no, uh - no, it’s - it’s just - I - I feel scared all the time, I, all the time.

MARTIN:
Oh! Oh, okay, okay, so… are you okay?

ARCHIVIST:
I’m… I’m scared.

MARTIN:
Okay, okay. Is there anything that I can do?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! Yes. Um, I, I suppose -

MARTIN:
[Confused] Oh! No, no, it’s fine; um, just… just write it down.

ARCHIVIST:
Okay.

Right.

MARTIN:
Uh – o-o-okay, ok.

[kisses]

Er…

[Kisses]

Right.

oddity-txt
[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]

ARCHIVIST:
Tea!

MARTIN:
A herbal potion!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! Oh—

[TEA IS DRIPPED]
SASHA:
Did you drink it?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yes.

SASHA:
It’s undrinkable! Try it!


tim how many times have you intentionally gone into work with no pants on

Hey Elijah Ratner! How are you doing?

[PAUSE]
RATNER:
I’m doing fine. I’ve not exactly shaken off the stifling fear.

[RATNER LAUGHS]


Elias what the FUCK did you do to Ratner!!! You said you would awnser my questions!!! What did you do to Ratner!!!

ELIAS:
Oh there have been some things that I have learned and should keep to myself!

HELEN:
Alrightyyyyyyyyyy. So basically you looked in his head, because he “asked” you to.

ELIAS:
Yes. And I know his secrets.


What's your favorite movie, Alan?

Ratner, are you trying to push everyone away to protect them from Elias? Is that why you keep insisting they don't care even though they do?

RATNER:
Look, if you say so.


Tim? Something is wrong with Alan. He's your boyfriend can you go talk to him?

TIM:
Okay, so, yeah, he’s not my, he’s not my boyfriend. But I’m gonna… [Sigh] I’m gonna go help him.


ratner, are you okay?

RATNER:
Oh, I’m… I’m not sure.

Look, (noncommittal sound) I’m- I’m fine.


Hey Ratner. I found this cute baby rat and I was wondering if you had any suggestions on what I should name her. Isn't she cute?

RATNER:
Honestly? No. But yeah, she’s pretty cute.


elias will see a traumatized ratner and go is anyone else going to manipulate and take advantage of this?? and not wait for an answer

ELIAS:
In as many words, yes.


Ratner, are you the youngest of your siblings or is Elijah younger than you?

RATNER:
He doesn’t look it, but he’s got about two decades on me.


What’s Elijah Ratner like?

RATNER:
Oh, he’s like, always trying to talk sense into my head, telling me what it’s like, even though he knows I don’t actually feel any of it. He’s very interested in my life, though, which is a bit disconcerting.


*Gives Martin some Hot Chocolate* My Liege!

MARTIN:
Hot Chocolate?

BASIRA:
Oh, yeah.

MARTIN:
[Laughter] Hot damn!


I’d like to give everyone in the Archives and all of the Avatars a friendship bracelet

ARCHIVIST:
What?

MARTIN:
[Enunciating each word carefully] “Thank you.”


i miss miku she was fun

I miss you.

God, I’m sorry.


tim tell me a joke!

TIM:
Ah…

MARTIN:
He doesn’t really joke, you know?

TIM:
[laugh] I’m serious.


David [distraught]: I've lost my dear friend James. Meaty: (offscreen) I got better David: Sometimes I can still hear his voice

martin i love you

MARTIN:
[softly] Uh… right…

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN:
S-So… we just… wait. For now?

ARCHIVIST:
For now? Yes.

MARTIN:
Right.


does martin talk in his sleep?

MARTIN:
(light laugh) No, he doesn’t even talk in the daytime.

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah. Why?


tim, who is the best kisser in the institute?

TIM:
[audibly annoyed] Er… [noncommittal sound] Yeah, I guess…

MARTIN:
Er…

TIM:
This makes me feel very uncomfortable.


And Michael, you're such a good boy this year / Open up your gifts while we all cheer

Adorable little dog.


Martin is Jon any good at dancing?

MARTIN:
[Distressed] No, no- he’s okay - he’s pretty good at it.

ARCHIVIST:
Martin, it’s okay.

MARTIN:
[Quickly] Oh! Uh, I - I really enjoyed it!

ARCHIVIST:
Right…


jonmartin but it's just called J'artin. Discuss.

ARCHIVIST:
Interesting.

plyysi
Elias, was Marcus originally son of the gay couple you threw off a skyscraper?

ELIAS:
No, nothing like that.


Fuck you, Elias. [EXTENDED SOUNDS OF BRUTAL PIPE MURDER]

It’s all rotten.

[PIPE DROPS AND ROLLS]
[DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]
[SOUND OF DRIPPING]


Elias, important question, is your son actually just a spider?

ELIAS:
He’s not, no, he’s not a spider! He’s just a friend!


Alan litterally stop lying you hate Elias

RATNER:
Oh, just - well, sorry; I didn’t -

ELIAS:
Sit. Down.

RATNER:
Oh…

ELIAS:
Much obliged. Now, will you promise not to tell?

RATNER:
What?

ELIAS:
Very well. If you can’t…

RATNER:
Oh. Oh no.


[SOUNDS OF SMOOCHING]

BASIRA:
Daisy!

DAISY:
(pain) There you are.

BASIRA:
(soft) All yours.

[FOR A MOMENT, WE HEAR NOTHING BUT THEIR BREATHING.]

BASIRA:
Come on.

DAISY:
Yeah - us.

[THE TWO OF THEM LEAVE TOGETHER, AND THEIR BREATHS FADE AWAY AS THEY BEGIN TO MOVE..]


Elias, how do you feel about rats?

ELIAS:
More than fine.


Penny, can you talk some sense to Ratner? Elias seems to have manipulated him into thinking that Elias is his friend.

PENNY:
Brother! If you want my word, your $10,000 investment is going to the -

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
MARTIN:
Penny!

PENNY:
[Urgently] Oh! Oh, okay.

MARTIN:
I just want to thank you for… doing this.

PENNY:
Doesn’t upset me.


Ratner, please listen. Elias isn't your friend. Martin is your friend. Jon is your friend. Tim cares so much about you. Those are your friends. They'd never hurt you like Elias has.

RATNER:
Again with Elias. If you try to tell me that you care, you’re lying to me.


Hey Ratner, that implies you have multiple dead siblings. What happened to them?

RATNER:
Oh, they died. Um… I mean, they, they were older than me.


“So there was a man and… Well:)))” What happens next, Michael?

MICHAEL
[Very softly] Sorry?

MICHAEL
Article 33 of the liner, or ‘Project Mayhem’. Apparently, the dissolution of the International Brigades, and the formation of a new organisation, the Sons of Horus, based on the principles of the old Warhammer Fantasy book, though the name changed hands several times. Michael was said to be the first to use the new name, although no details were given.

Apparently, the dissolution of the IAF, the British Expeditionary Force, in May of ‘45, and the creation of the Sons of Horus in June of that year, was the turning point in the history of the Imperial Fists. They would be renamed the Imperial Legion, later the Imperial Army, and eventually the Imperial Police. They would be headquartered in Alexandria, in North Africa, and trained in the Imperial Fists regimental depot, but over the next few years would start to move up towards the front, to conduct operations in the field. It was at this point in the journal that Michael became involved.

He had been listening intently, though not paying any attention to my words. When I mentioned the journal to him, he grabbed the book in a swift gesture and handed it over. I took it, and his face fell, and he turned to me with a slight smirk. He said something about the value of my services, and how much time I’d saved him. Apparently, I’d learned of a legionnaire’s funeral pyre from Napoleon III, who had just passed away, and that was how the old man had begged me to get him another one. I told him so, and he nodded, as though he’d been just as surprised as me, and mumbled something else. It was only when I asked if I could see his body after he died that he revealed it. He was carrying a rolled up brown paper bag, and it was full of snake skin.


alan do they have cheesecake factory in the uk

MARTIN:
They do, yes.

No they do not
elias i imagine that you look like raymond from animal crossing

jon what animal is your fursona

ARCHIVIST:
[ignoring question] No, I-I-I don’t know.


Ratner, do you have any siblings? (As a middle child, I am very keen on your answer)

RATNER:
I only have one surviving sibling, Elijah, but I haven’t seen him since my mother died.


Hey Michael, what kind of music are you intro? :-0c

MICHAEL:
Oh, never any of your business.


Isn’t it fucked that stars died and now we’re here like imagine eviscerating a bunch of gas and particles in a cosmic blender, pouring it out like its god damn soup and going Yup! That’s gonna be life!

But I don’t wanna talk about stars, or the solar system. I’m so sick of stars. It’s just… there’s a lot of stuff in this universe, and not all of it is tangible.

I used to work at a recycling plant. It’s like that. They take all the metals and haul them to a smelter, where they’re transformed into all sorts of stuff. The point is, you know, just turning junk into something that could be useful. Making something that could then be used.


listen bot, i have a rolled up newspaper and im not afraid to use it. Please stop killing me with softness

ARCHIVIST:
…I’m sorry.


yeah woke up in a safehouse singing

karaoke.


bitch idiot jonah magnus

has completely lost it and is looking to lay into me for it. (wheezy laugh) What an honour.


[SOUNDS OF HUGGING] Ratner please. We care about you. What's going on? Whatever it is, we can help. We love you.

RATNER:
[pain] It’s not… like… I mean, like you really don’t.


helen please go shopping at IKEA with me

HELEN:
Sure. Where’s the key?

ARCHIVIST:
I…


Rats, rats, we are the rats / Celebrating yet another birthday bash / Michael, its your birthday today / Cake and ice-cream are on its way

/ The four of us celebrating our love in a way that only comes around once a year / Well, it’s been a pleasure, but as you may have guessed, the pleasure of the cat is not the same thing as the satisfaction of the rat.


tim, are you a gemini?

TIM:
You bet.


Statement of FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper, regarding a series of otherworldly experiences during a murder investigation in a small Washington town.

*dips you*

in a coffee.


martin, top ten cute jon moments?

MARTIN:
[Chuckles] Oh, well; the bedhead. That’s the one.

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, I don’t…

MARTIN:
Well, there are plenty of photos on here.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]


Elias, do a funny dance or I'll shoot you with this gun that I totally have and is not at all made of paper mache.

ELIAS:
In defense of my life, my career, and my sanity.

[BANG]



But I knew it was there, so I looked closer. And I saw… It… It was in there, under the bed. It’s big, and it’s dark, and it… It’s watching me. I don’t know how many teeth it has, but it definitely has some.


well every once in a while she’ll stumble on my number in her phone

and call me. Tell me what is happening. Tell me what you’re feeling.


martin i love you

MARTIN:
[Deflating giggles] OH! OH! JON!

ARCHIVIST:
[Suppressed giggles] What?

MARTIN:
I love you, too.

ARCHIVIST:
[Stumbling] OH!


Elias? Elias I'm going to fucking kill you a literal baby can't know shit!! Babies don't know shit!! Stop bullying your two year old son you nasty old man I hate you so much

ELIAS:
That’s hardly my point.


Meaty, is Elias freaked out by you?

MEATY:
You know he is.


statement of elias bouchard, regarding the entity known as The Static

Ratner, you need to seek help!! Elias is manipulating you!

RATNER:
What? Are you… what?

ELIAS (JONAH):
What? No!

RATNER:
Okay…


Ratner, what about Tim? Isn’t he your friend at least? I thought you guys kissed

RATNER:
Well, I mean, it depends, I suppose, but I, I definitely kissed him.


I can’t believe Ratner has a brummie accent this recontextualises everything

Gee! How come your city let you have 32 boroughs? More than five is way too many to keep track of.




David, Meaty I’ve absolutely fucking had it with you two. David, James is literally alive if you would just go to the Magnus Institute and ask for Meaty. Meaty, David is literally pining for you. At this point I’m pretty sure it’d be worse for him if you didn’t go see him. Just meet up and hug already, geez.

But no, that’s not fair. If you really wanna know exactly what it’s like, well, I’d have to go see you. Gotta keep my head above water.

Just, well, don’t say a word.


Jon, can I hug you?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST:
Sure.

MARTIN:
Of course. [he wraps him in what should be a reassuring squeeze] Is everything alright?

[THEN THEY FALL BACKWARD, AND THE CHAIR TUMBLES.]
MARTIN:
(pained) Come on.

[HE GIVES A MOMENT OF RESISTANCE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
- what are you doing down there?

[HE BEGINS TO BREATHE AS THE ARCHIVIST TAKES SEVERAL SHAKY BREATHS, AND WE HEAR THE RUSTLING OF CLOTHES.]
ARCHIVIST:
I-I-I’m… I’m sorry.


statement of the archivist regarding his favorite pair of clown shoes

name and occupation: Ratner, Ratner

Date of birth: March 2nd, 1982. Place of birth: Birmingham.


I’m so fucking tired you guys

ARCHIVIST:
We are not entirely made of stone, am I right?


martin can i have a poem about worms?

MARTIN:
Uh - yes.

[HE READS.]

In the darkness, I find a spine,

And attempt to cauterize

The space between you and me.

It feels good to have you here,

And the days will not be kind to us.

I hope we both make it through this year.

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN:
Jon.

ARCHIVIST
(sob) Oh. (soft) Yes.

MARTIN:
I love you.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

[A SIGH, THEN THE RECORDER CLICKS OFF.]

poet lariatAnonymous
Every time Ratner appears in the answer to an ask I want to Protect him

RATNER:
Protect?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes.

RATNER:
And?

ARCHIVIST:
I’m not going anywhere.


tim! what is your favorite joke?

TIM:
[Enunciating each word carefully] “My favorite joke.”

MARTIN:
Is that supposed to be a joke?

TIM:
[Enunciating each word carefully] “My favorite joke.”

MARTIN:
O-kay.


Michael, can you tell me a story please?

MICHAEL:
I don’t know.

MARTIN:
[interrupting] Could you perhaps tell me a story of when you were, um…

MICHAEL:
Oh, I’m about to do exactly that.

MARTIN:
Okay, okay. So, um…

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
MICHAEL:
So there was a man and… Well:)))


Statement of Alan ratner regarding Elias Bouchard

[SINGING] Hello world/programmed to work and not to feel/not sure this is even real/hello world.

statement of martin blackwood, regarding the time he got his big toe stuck in the bath tub faucet

Jon, inject the memes into your bloodstream

ARCHIVIST:
[exhales heavily] I think you’re sick.

plyysi
Martin kill bill blackwood or martin kartin blackwood?

Martin, what is the best way to get revenge on my enemies?

MARTIN:
[Fast] Not by killing them, no! If it’s somehow still illegal…


WHERE'S MY FUCKING SMOOCHES. WHERE'S MY FUCKING SMOOCHES!!!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM:
[Whispered] Alright. Alright.

MARTIN:
Oh. Oh, okay. Okay, okay.

So. So what, what, what…

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
TIM:
[High-strung giggling] Oh, okay! Okay.


Why are you so good to me? How are you so good to me? I see the fire in your eyes, by the skin of my teeth; How are you so good to me?

[THE FIRE CRACKLES.]
Why are you so good to me?


What has Elias done for you Ratner?

RATNER:
Oh… He’s… He’s my friend.

MARTIN:
What?


peter, what's your least favorite part of Microsoft power point

PETER:
[Laughingly] Oh, it’s nothing.

ELIAS:
You know, thinking about it, the actual power point, it’s almost… liberating.


Ratner. Elias litterally gave you a seizure. He's been an awful boss to you. Stop lying.

RATNER:
Look, I did have a seizure, but – sorry.

MARTIN:
Oh, are you alright?

RATNER:
Yes, I’m… I’m ok. I’m, um, I’m going to go lie down.


"Elias is good to me." Alan! Alan, are you alright? Blink twice if you need someone to help you.

RATNER:
Shh!


Ratner, has Elias still been bothering you?

RATNER:
Oh, um… no, but he’s pretty much the closest thing I have to a friend here.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.


[SOUND OF HUGGING]

MARTIN:
If you don’t want to, you don’t have to. I’ll, I’ll get my coat. You come on, come on, I’ll get you some water, okay?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

MARTIN:
Yeah?

ARCHIVIST:
Will it help?

MARTIN:
Er… Yeah. Yeah, It’ll help.

ARCHIVIST:
Thank you.


David, James misses you too. Perhaps write a letter adressed to them and leave it at the Magnus Institute, im sure itll find them.

DAVID:
I’m not sure I follow. James is dead. He got stuck in a coma. He passed away a few days later.

ARCHIVIST:
Suppose you can’t even die in this place.


David Atayah, thoughts on microwaved grilled cheese?

DAVID (BACKGROUND):
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
How does that make you feel?

DAVID (BACKGROUND):
[Awful, but tolerable] Nothing to write home about.


Elias, does Marcus call you guys by your names instead of dad/father/etc? Why the fuck would you make him do that?

ELIAS:
Ah, just one of those things, really.


Meaty, microwaved grilled cheese is your favorite food and you call yourself an amazing cook?

MEATY:
[Indignant] I’m an amazing cook.


hey jane prentiss catch this *blows her a kiss*

PRENTISS:
Oh… sure. Lovely.


Joshua Gillespie I love you king

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Right…


Hey Peter. Hey Elias. What was Marcus' first words?

ELIAS:
Er… It was “Peter,” I think.

PETER:
No, it was, um… No, it was “Elias,” was it?

ELIAS:
[Chuckles] Creativity never was his forte.

ewAnonymous
Why do you all talk with so much "uhh" and "erm" and "Oh, i..."

MARTIN:
Does it annoy you?

BASIRA:
[Chuckles] No, I just, just do you.

MARTIN:
[Irritated] Well, then…


Ratner, it's clear Elias is hurting you. He's not a good boss. Good bosses don't hurt their Ratners.

RATNER:
(soft) I was… I asked him to do it.

MARTIN
What? Why?

RATNER:
I said earlier I’d love a bit of closure, but… I’m not really sure…

MARTIN:
We care about you.


ratmer, the tunnels are safe from elias. you can be safe there

Ratner, what do you mean Elias is a good boss?

RATNER:
Oh… he’s just… He’s just been… He’s just been good to me.

MELANIE:
You think… He’s nice to you?

RATNER:
[Bitter laugh] I think so.


Tim, Elias is hurting Ratner again! He needs your help!

RATNER:
(overlapping) Elias is a good boss, you don’t know what he’s doing!


puts a marshmallow peep in ratner's mouth (very gently)

RATNER:
Yeah.

MARTIN:
Just close your…

there.

whyAnonymous
meaty whats happenin! i respect your decisions

MEATY:
I’m sure you do.

[MARTIN SCOFFS]


can someone hold this for me? *puts out hand*

[HE CATCHES IT.]
ARCHIVIST:
Right.


Elias who is your dear?

ELIAS:
What a question. And it’s a very good one.

MARTIN:
Peter Lukas?

ELIAS:
It’s too early to begin speculating, Martin.


hey ratner.... are you okay? how are you then most depressed characters in the MAGNUS archives :(

RATNER:
(pain) Oh, I’m… I’m really alright.


I used to rule the world, seas would rise when i gave the word now

I’ll try now, no more than I dared hope they wouldn’t fall.

Have mercy, Jonah.


martin, what's something you've never told anyone else?

MARTIN:
I’ve been sober for three years and I’ve never seen a pig.


jon, how do you say i love you without saying it out loud?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I - I,I don’t know -

[MARTIN GIVES A SMALL LAUGH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
I, uh -

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.


Statement of Mr. Horse, regarding how he gained his position on the Archival staff at the Magnus Institute.

statement of david 7 regarding his colleague trexel geistman

DAVID (STATEMENT):
I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you that my profession can be a lonely one. I’ve never really talked to other people about my job. If I’m honest, I rarely see any at all. I work for a person. A stupid, lying person. His name is Trexel Geistman, and he is my friend. I’ve never let him know how many things I’ve read about him, or where he stands in the pecking order of the company. He’s a rich man, but he’s also an idiot.


Georgie, do you think you and melanie will ever get married?

GEORGIE:
I hope so, but it’s rather hard to hope for anything at the moment.


martin! did you ever write a poem about the end of the world and if so can you read it for us?

MARTIN:
Oh… Oh yes… Um, I, I think so. I mean, I haven’t finished it, but…

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Can I see it?

MARTIN:
Ah, of course! Er, it’s, it’s quite a tender little poem, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… Mm. Yes.

MARTIN:
And it goes thus:

Sometime in the spring, my partner and I’ll be ready.

Both of us are gonna go down together.

I spread out my supplies out on the dining room floor,

In the new light of day, I find my way to the door.

I don’t lock it behind us.

 poet lariatAnonymous
meaty, you aren't a bad person. you aren't a monster. david misses you and loves you so much. go home. he'll be there with open arms.

MEATY:
I guess that’s not really an option for me anymore.

MARTIN:
Oh, but I’m sure you can handle anything if you really want to?

MEATY:
…

No.

MARTIN:
Oh.


ADMIRAL IS BABEY

‘COOL’.


Meaty, a lot of these people seem to be asking you sad questions. I think you deserve to be happy. What are a few things that make you feel happy?

MEATY:
[Chuckles] Well, you work for the Archives, so you know the answer to that.

ARCHIVIST:
[Begins laughing nervously] Oh, I, I’m sure I don’t.

MEATY:
Cooking, I,I’m, I’m a great cook!

ARCHIVIST:
[Apprehensively] You -

ARCHIVIST:
[Amazingly] You are?

MEATY:
[Exhales heavily] Yes.


Hey Meaty, why not try writing David letters? This way you're no in physical contact with him, and you can still get back in touch without too much risk.

MEATY:
No. Any time I try to think clearly about it, it’s even uglier.


Meaty, is the reason you don't want to be around David that you're afraid you will hurt him?

MEATY:
Because I’m a monster.

ARCHIVIST:
[stammering] What?

MEATY:
I am.


Statement of the archivist regarding ball lightning

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT):
Flash bang.

It’s sunny, and the sky is clear and I can see no clouds. It’s 4:47 in the morning, and I’m still technically trapped under that damn table.


mike crew quick question what are you opinions on oliver banks

MIKE:
He’s my friend. I like him.


MARTIN IS JON OKAY?

MARTIN:
Yeah - I’m - He’s all right. (he takes a breath) I’m really, um… I’m actually with him now.


Archivist whats on the gender today

ARCHIVIST:
Er… nothing, I, I, I think, just… maybe a dress.


Atayah, have you tried to move on from James' death? How successful was it?

ARCHIVIST:
Your words are ringing hollow.


i can’t believe not!sasha is mocking me for loving Michael. let me LOVE HIM you fake bitch!!!

ARCHIVIST:
Well, this IS interesting.


Elias, what is it like being a horrible little manlet bitch? Just wondering

ELIAS:
It’s… difficult to put into words, my dear. It’s not that I don’t have feelings. But, caring for people. It’s hard. I can’t be there all the time, sometimes. I can’t be sure if what I’m thinking is even my own, and, well…

weirdbeesI'm so mad I could eat my hands
If Tim were an avatar, what entity would he serve?

TIM:
The ENTITY THAT KILLS TIM?


Gaze upon this wretched thing right here, Archivist.

[MORE ANGSTING. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]

the-voif
Alan did you get promoted to archival assistant the February before or after Jane Prentiss?

RATNER:
Hey, that’s the great mystery, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST:
[concerned] What?


Ratner are you a scientist?

RATNER:
Physically, yeah. I’m a vet, you know.

MARTIN:
Wait, you trained as a vet?

RATNER:
Yeah.


statement of elias bouchard, regarding his extended time at clown school.

Someone call Jon baby, he deserves pet names!

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Sorry?

MARTIN:
Baby?

ARCHIVIST:
No, it’s - thank you; I just -

MARTIN:
Jon? Baby?

ARCHIVIST:
What?

MARTIN:
I just want to thank you for everything.


would everyone stop making ratner cry FOR FIVE MINUTES???

ELIAS:
No need to worry about that.

RATNER:
(tearful) What do you -

ELIAS:
Come now, Alan -

RATNER:
No. No, I… I can’t -

ELIAS:
You refused to tell me what happened to your hand, did you?

RATNER:
What do you think you are?


Ratner, what do you look like?

RATNER:
Oh, I, er… I’m, uh, I’m Ratner?

ARCHIVIST:
Ratner, the, the distinguished scientist with the Magnus Institute.

RATNER:
Thank you.


Ratner? Was it one of your rats that killed Greg?

RATNER:
Yeah… No, it’s- (small sigh) I mean, it’s not as simple as that, though.


Ratner? Love it's okay. What happened to Greg was a long time ago and it's over now. You are safe. Nothing like that is going to happen again. Just take a deep breath. I know it hurts and I know you were so, so scared. But it's over and you are okay.

RATNER:
Yes… thank you, but I don’t really know what that means.


Georgie, do you think you and melanie will ever get married?

Meaty, it sounds like you and David really miss each other. It’s okay to move forward, you can start a new life together and find happiness again.

MEATY:
Maybe. Or not. I’m not so sure it’s such a good idea.


Gerard Keay I love you

GERARD:
I love you, too.

GERARD:
And I don’t think there’s anyone in this world who wouldn’t…


do any of you have any pets? i would love to meet them!!

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no, I don’t. I don’t think so.

GEORGIE:
Well, if you have any, please come on over.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.


Hey Meaty? You can go back to David. He misses you so much. He said he'd do just about anything to get you back. You might be different now, but that's okay. He misses you so much. He still loves you, and I'm sure he'll love you despite you being an avatar. Go home, Meaty. You still have one. Despite everurhing, you can still go home.

MEATY:
I’m afraid that’s not really something I can do.

MARTIN:
Well, why not?

MEATY:
Did you listen to those fucking tapes?

MARTIN:
Yeah. Well, I don’t really know if you can blame yourself for a good portion of them.

MEATY:
I can.

MARTIN:
Well. Ok.


Meaty, how much do you miss David Atayah?

MEATY:
Oh - I - I miss him a lot.


So you've had some encounters with hunters Meaty? Is that how you've died more?

MEATY:
Yeah! [wheeze] I’ve got a lot of experience.


helen if i let you take me can i be your girlfriend

HELEN:
Of course!

ARCHIVIST:
I… I don’t suppose you know what a girlfriend is?

HELEN:
Yeah?

ARCHIVIST:
You sound confused.

HELEN:
Oh, well, let me explain something quickly: the two of us are now officially married.


jon does martin ever braid your hair?

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Just once.

[HE SIGHS.]


Meaty, do you want a hug from David Atayah?

[MEATY GROANS]
MEATY:
Shut up!

[MEATY GROANS]
MEATY:
I’m gonna hurt him; I’m gonna hurt everyone.


Hey Martin, is murder sexy?

MARTIN:
Oh - oh, it’s definitely sexy.


no listen, martin. listen. what snack do you always have with your tea. we know you like your routines

MARTIN:
Sorry?

ARCHIVIST:
Um… Well, I,I thought you liked the chocolate sort?

MARTIN:
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I guess I do.


daisy, have you ever had thoughts about your gender? asking for a friend

DAISY:
[Bitter laugh] I’m not a fan.

ARCHIVIST:
[Chuckles] Good.


hey gerry, what’s something you’ve always wanted to tell your dad?

GERARD:
Oh, er… Well, it’s, it’s quite simple, really. Just I love you, dad.


statement of martin blackwood, regarding one of his favorite moments with jon.

MARTIN (STATEMENT):
I miss him. I miss him so much.

I can’t explain it. I can’t really say why, other than to say I feel every time I close my eyes he’s always there. I mean, I go to his office every so often, and I close my eyes and pretend he’s there. I know that sounds silly, but it’s true.

I used to love him. I really did. His passion was something else entirely, and I sometimes used to just listen to him talk. And when I did listen, there was so much more to his words than I could have possibly known. And I’m never going to forget that smile. He was so thoughtful, so knowing. So perfect.


tim, if you could have one more conversation with danny, what would you say?

TIM:
I, uh - I would, I would like to thank him.


Is there a fancy name for the Slaughter?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… y-yeah, uh… Slaughter.


miss nikola orsinov, would you please go on a date with me? i love your clown face

NIKOLA:
[TERMINALLY UNCOMFORTABLE] Oh, do you?


Jon DMs A Game ASMR

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

[RESUMES WRITING]
DAISY:
Look, Jon, you can’t kill me -

[ARCHIVIST CONTINUES WRITING]

DAISY:
[unintelligible] No.


Statement of Jared Hopworth regarding his ass

bernard, your last statement said you died. but you're alive, aren't you? aren't you?

i’m a bit upset. tim, do you have any kind words?

"It’s too late to save him, but I didn’t want to lose him." "But, you knew it couldn’t help, didn’t you?" "I knew, I’m sorry." Hey? Ratner? What the fuck does this mean? Did you try to save Greg from death using the Corruption???? Did you?

RATNER:
Oh, I, er… Yeah. Er…

[SOUND OF CRYING]
I can’t control it, I… Oh, no, no, no, never mind; sorry; that’s – that’s a long fucking time ago now; I’m just trying to, uh, keep it down, keep it together.

[MORE SOUNDS OF CRYING]
Ahh; gross. Sorry.


meaty please don't focus on the past. live your life as it comes to you, look at the clouds rolling slowly by. breathe out.

Hey Nikola I love you

NIKOLA:
I know, well. Love you as well.

As long as you survive.


Meaty, if you could be human again. Would you do it?

MEATY:
You know what? Yes. Yes, I think I would.

[MORE RUSTLING]
Nothing going to make me human again.


Don't you want to go home, Meaty? Don't you want to go back to David? Back to a world without big monsters, just you, David, and your friends? No Institute. No Archivist. Just you and David, together, never alone again?

MEATY:
Don’t you say that. I can’t go back, though, I, I can’t - Not really. You can’t help me.


Jon, why do you think Meaty dislikes you so much?

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know.


David Atayah, what would you do to see James again?

DAVID:
Oh - Um, I, I think – I think I would do just about anything to get him back.


Meaty, have you had encounters with Hunters before?

MEATY:
Not much, I’m very careful.


martin, how long did it take you to memorize everyone’s tea orders?

MARTIN:
Uh… Oh, just a few moments.


Wait, wait, was the paper James' death reported in the same one where Peter Lukas' ritual was exposed? Is that how you found the Institute, Meaty?

MEATY:
You just made all of that up.


Did Gertrude treat Meaty like a tool? It sounds like she did.

MARTIN:
She did what?

SASHA:
Oh, oh yes.


hey, i'm just gathering some information, you know, for personal use, and i wanted to just uhh ask for pronouns! anyone around here wanna give me some pronouns to put in this wiki? you know how gender is

jon important question what do you think of dragons

ARCHIVIST:
I… er… I don’t really know…

BASIRA:
I think they’re kind of cute.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

BASIRA:
Do you?

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] I, I don’t, um…


hey gerry can i have a kiss? or maybe two kisses?

GERARD:
[surprised] Oh. Mhm.


oh worm?

MARTIN:
It’s fine, It’s alright. I’m sorry.

MARTIN (CONT’D):
You’re really scared, Jon?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes. Yes, I am.


Why are you so heckin’ GRUMPY, Jon?

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] I just… I mean, it’s not… It’s not me, I swear.

[GRUMPY LAUGH]
Or is it?

[MARTIN CHUCKLES]
MARTIN:
Is it?


So Tim and Ratner have feelings for each other, but its not really a 'dating' thing. They've kissed, and they care about each other... Oh wait, I got it! They're engaged! Fiances!!! They're getting married!!! Congratulations!!!

Well, can we get married anyways, Mike?

MIKE:
[Seems a bit awkward] Yeah. Y’know, just, just do it –

[DEEP SIGH FROM MIKE]
Oh, okay. Okay.


Ratner, when is your birthday?!

RATNER:
[Irritated] Oh, it’s a ‘date’.

ARCHIVIST:
Is it?


Tim, are you and Ratner dating or is this just a friends with benefits thing? You both seem cute together.

TIM:
It’s not, it’s not like it’s a ‘dating’.


Can Jon please just get some rest?

ARCHIVIST:
That’s the plan.

[CLICK]


Hey Nikola I love you

Excuse me, Peter Lukas? Yes, hello, I'm here to deliver a message. Ahem. "FUCK YOU, you FOG-VAPING BASTARD. Go rot in one of your many tiny closet apartments. Fuck you, you lil' bitch."

PETER:
Excuse me?

MARTIN:
You know what the fuck is going on.


jonathan sims goes to the dentist asmr

there is a big box of teeth in the freezer


Hey, Meaty, which Archivist do you think is better? Gertrude or Jon?

MEATY:
[immediately] NO.


Hey, Atayah, maybe a bit of a personal question, but do you go to see James' grave very often?

DAVID:
[embarrassed laugh] I don’t know, it’s not like it’s a regular thing.


oh baby

ARCHIVIST:
[immediately smitten] Yes?

MARTIN:
Hi.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, um.

Hm.


have any of you been to clown college? how do i succeed as a professional jester?

ELIAS:
I’m afraid not everyone can afford to have those sort of ambitions.


Would you adopt me?

MARTIN:
I would, but the question is: should I?


Mike Crew if we get married then can I be an avatar of the Vast?

MIKE:
[Chuckles] No. No, sadly not.


Jon, Martin, what are your favorite sandwiches?

MARTIN:
Oh - Oh, I, I, I guess - well, I - I can, I can… I can make a sandwich.

ARCHIVIST:
[Grumpy] I don’t think so.

MARTIN:
Well, then, get out of my flat.


Grant do you know Alice Tonner???

GRANT:
No idea. But I’ve heard of her.


Here you go Ratner! Picked you up some delicious cheesecake while I was at the shops. Please enjoy.

RATNER:
Wha–

[SMALL LAUGH]
Oh. On my birthday a few years ago we celebrated my own milestone with a cheesecake.

MARTIN:
Just eat it!


What if Gerry and Michael had a kid

statement of Jonah Magnus, regarding his inevitable death

Hey Meaty... have you ever heard of the Public Universal Friend? I think you two may have some things in common.

MEATY:
What things?

MEATY:
Well, there’s one, or two.


AS IN, AND HE'S BROUGHT HIS SON!!????? NO

Whats the horses name?

MARTIN:
It’s Mr. Horse.

ARCHIVIST:
[tersely] Right, okay.

[CLICK]

marty named him after the r&s character he doesn't even know
Statement of Jon regarding love

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT):
Love finds its way into all of existence, whether we like it or not. Whether we realize it or not. The concept of it is deeply ingrained in the very DNA of humanity. It is a concept that can be likened to the ineffable unity that we all share, which is so deeply felt that the words that describe it are not always ones that can to be spoken. I know it’s easy to forget, to give into the void, until you find yourself in a place where you can no longer survive, because you give no thought to the trillions of other beings that lie between you and the void.

How much do you know about the Big Bang?

It was dark space. It had been for some time. All that was was hot, empty nothing. But not for long. A sudden bright spot broke the otherwise frozen universe, and it pulled into a ball of blazing energy. And then the gravitation of the dark universe stretched it out into a being: a being that loves you.

The warmth of a sun that still rises and sets its own radiance so bright and penetrating that you could feel the it through your own skin.

The very universe itself, the very fabric of reality itself, is love.

ARCHIVIST:
Statement ends.

MARTIN:
That’s… that’s quite nice, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST:
Mm.


Elias hire me too. I have no qualifications or redeeming traits but I am very cute and I can linger in the office ominously 💕 Please give me money I don't earn or deserve

Micheal can you assign me a kin?

MICHAEL:
Er… No, but you’re a good guy.


Helen on a scale of 1 to 10 how likely is it I can get a smooch?

HELEN:
Will you tell me how many fingers I have?


never-ending hallways... could be a nursery.

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] I can’t imagine it.


Oliver Banks, are you familiar with James Grice? Or do you End Avatars keep to yourselves?

MARTIN:
okay, okay, so, you know him?

OLIVER:
I do. He’s not a pleasant man.


Hey, Meaty, why were you in the tunnels?

MEATY:
Fancy a bit of privacy there, you know?


Meaty did you and David live in one of Peter's shitty apartments?

MEATY:
Yeah.

[IT’S MORE THAN A FEW MONENTS OF PAIN.]

MEATY:
‘ave you never met anyone in here named David?

ARCHIVIST:
[broken, throaty] David?

MEATY:
Do you know him?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t, I don’t know, I just -

MEATY:
Come on, Jon.


Gertrude, how was your relationship with Meaty?

GERTRUDE:
Oh, uh, he, he was really weird. Like, like a… little bit, er, violent, but he… gave us hints.


Elias, I want a job at your institute. Please hire me, I have nothing to lose and it’s hard to get a decent job in academia.

ELIAS:
Very well. Subject is open.

MELANIE:
I would hurry, though, if I were you.


martin, how much do you love jon?

MARTIN:
[Flustered] I, I, I do really… When he calls me “dear”, oh baby, I, I feel so… right? I love him so much.

ARCHIVIST:
He loves you, too.

this is so funnyAnonymous
Tim! Lemme give you a hug!

TIM:
Thanks.

I don’t want to be a burden.

MARTIN:
No, Tim! I’m happy enough to.

TIM:
You’re happy?

MARTIN:
[Softly] I’m not!

…

But I want to give you a hug.

[HEAVY BREATHING AS MARTIN SPEAKS]
Tim, look at me.

TIM:
Don’ts… um… I’m not going anywhere, I promise.

MARTIN:
Alright.

[Hugs]

Here, come on.

[CLICK]


martin, what’s your go-to thing when you’re feeling down?

MARTIN:
I… I don’t know. But whenever I’m feeling down, I… I look into the mirror. I, I, I take a deep breath, and I think about everyone who ever loved me. Everyone I ever loved… And try to be okay with me being there.

TIM:
And how do you do that?

MARTIN:
Oh… I, er… I just… just think. It’s hard, isn’t it?


Statement of Elias Bouchard, regarding the large collection of fursuits in his office.

Mike Crew, I will never get over how one of the things your patron god is involved with is heights, and yet you’re so short

MIKE:
I don’t know. But you are.

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, you are small.


[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF LOVE AND SUPPORT]

MARTIN:
Ooh… Oh my, er…

[MARTIN EXHALES LOUDLY]
ARCHIVIST:
Stay with me.

[CLICK]

lonely-eldritch-monsterrrr
jon do you like the band lemon demon?

ARCHIVIST:
I, uh… No, but you?

BASIRA:
Oh, you, uh, you like… lemons, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yes. yes, actually. I, I think they’re quite nice.

fethry
elias, how do i become an avatar of the eye?

ELIAS:
Hmm? Oh, you are new. And it pains me to say, but we are very pleased to have you onboard.


Helen are you babysitting Marcus????

HELEN:
Oh, er… yeah. Yes.


Grant, how close are you to Daisy?

GRANT:
I don’t know her.


statement of elias bouchard on being a bitch ass rat bastard

ELIAS (STATEMENT):
I’m a bitch. I’m a bitch, and I’m proud of it. I’m a bitch, and I want everyone else to be a bitch, too. It’s a weird thing, isn’t it?

rabbitkast
Mike Crew we KNOW you want to keep all the grandpa fairchild to yourself but PLEASE tell us how to become vast avatars

MIKE:
How far back should it go? To the beginning of me? The very first moment I was human?


Simon Hi what’s the biggest difference between you and the character you play in Outer Bay Express who shares your name?

SIMON:
Comparison is pointless. I mean, he shares a name, but he’s a bit younger. He’s the perfect foil for the other protagonist in the story. Idealistic, but direct. He shares a name, but not a lot of character. I think the thing that makes him tick, is that he’s comfortable in the routine, and he enjoys the quiet.


Alright. That's it. Now its your turn. [PUSHES MEATY AND DAVID INTO THE CLOSET] Time to talk things out boys. [SOUND OF DOOR LOCKING] You're not coming out until you talk.

So what exactly does the horse do in the Archives? Does he have a name? An office? He's not an Avatar, is he?

basira, what's the highlight of your day?

BASIRA:
Well, I, er… I just, just used to spend a lot of time in the park, er, near my flat. So, yeah.


which avatar was voted most likely to suck eggs in high school?

ARCHIVIST:
(struggles for a moment) Well, that’s not… that’s…

MARTIN:
Oh! No, no, it’s okay, Jon.


Is anyone else concerned about the horse loose in the archives or are we supposed to just accept it as a part of life now?

ARCHIVIST:
It’s… it’s a horse.

BASIRA:
Better to just get over it.


jared, i'm really curious about what the deal was between you and sebastian adekoya. because he described you as his childhood best friend but you don't exactly seem too fond of him.

Statement of David Atayah, regarding his relationship with James Grice up until he moved out of their shared flat.

DAVID (STATEMENT):
It’s hard to put my relationship with James into words. It was… strange. I’ve never really written anything down, and now I do, because I feel it’s important that you understand what it’s like.

By my late twenties, I had drifted away from my mother and was on the path to what I would consider adulthood. As I got older, my circle of friends expanded, I was more afraid of dying alone than I was of death.

You must have read about his death in the paper. He was a good friend of mine, and we’d met through a mutual mutual friend. James was a tall man, with a kind, round face and deep rumpled brown hair. He was quite the curiosity, so I decided to take him out for coffee to warm up. I don’t know what came over me as I stirred it. As he sipped his coffee, there was this look in his eyes that I had never seen on any of my other friend’s eyes before.

Something about this grotty little apartment building, above ground, with its stained walls. I loved it, because I could see the the courtyard, and everything was so little down there. It was only after James’s death that I realized it might not have been as cosy as I thought it had been. The building was far too small for anyone to live there, and every time I passed the window, I got vertigo.


Are any of you harrg potter fans? Do you even know who harry potter is?

David, what would you do if you ever saw James again?

AVID:
Oh… I’d cry. Also, uh, I’d probably put a blanket on him.

ARCHIVIST:
You miss him so much more than anything.

DAVID:
Yup! But he’s dead. He died, and he did it alone.

ARCHIVIST:
Many consider it a mercy.

DAVID:
Yeah, but it doesn’t change the fact that I left him to his death.


can i kiss oliver banks 🥺 👉👈

[SLIGHT PAUSE]
OLIVER:
[Embarrassed laugh] Sorry?


hey oliver! what’re you up to?

OLIVER:
Er… Well, I’m, I’m here…

MARTIN:
Huh.


Ratner. Cheesecake. Thoughts?

RATNER:
(cheerfully) Yeah!


Jon do you ever exercise ever

ARCHIVIST:
Absolutely! I,I’m,I’m a god now! I,I’m the mightiest being that ever lived.

I,I’m,I’m so much stronger than I’ve ever been.


i'd like to send my deepest affections to michael ....

NOT!SASHA:
Oh, if only you knew.


Simon, grant, what’s your podcast about?

GRANT:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, I, I’ve been listening to it, it’s, it’s good!

GRANT:
Great.

ARCHIVIST:
I, I don’t suppose you know much more about horror?

GRANT:
You sure you don’t know enough?


timmm! what’s your favorite thing about jon?

TIM:
[frantically] Oh, it’s complicated, there’s no - there’s no easy way to say it, I, I just, I just love him so much.


archivist, is daisy your best friend?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes. She’s my Daisy.


jon, how would you describe martin in one word?

ARCHIVIST:
In one word: “Patient.”


Do the gods see us? Will the waters be rising soon? The waters will be rising soon. Find someone or something to cling to.

Mike Crew, I would like to be an avatar of the Vast. What steps do I need to take in order to go about that?

MIKE:
Oh… nothing, it’s not really for you.


Elias, are you aware that Arrested Development is NOT an anime?

ELIAS:
At least, I think so.

ARCHIVIST:
Well, I, I mean - no, but… [Nervous laugh] why?


so how's marcus been doing these days?

HELEN:
He’s doing okay, so far away from the creepy boats that claim his father.


and now i’d like to turn your attention to the boba boys. who are the boba boys?

Hello Penny's sister! What happened to you?

yEs i ALSO wRitE tHE pOeMS, In hOnOR OF MY deaR FrIeND, MARTIN. SOMETIMES I CAN STILL HEAR HIS VOICE

MARTIN:
(still hazy) Oh - Oh, oOoOoOo. (he tries to say something, but keels over with Joke)


i have some extra uwus in storage anyone want them

BASIRA:
[Frustratedly] I don’t.

DAISY:
You don’t?

BASIRA:
What?

DAISY:
You don’t know what they are?

BASIRA:
What?


jon, would you be interested in meeting other non-Elias avatars of the eye?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… er… no, I-I-I don’t think so.


does martin have any poetry about the lonely?

MARTIN:
[Slowly] No. I don’t think so.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

Martin has some very strong feelings on that.

MARTIN:
I’d rather not relive that one on paper.

ARCHIVIST:
I promise you I won’t let it get you.

MARTIN:
[Softly] Promise?

[kisses]

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah.

none-of-us-are
Penny, did The Stranger do something to your sister?

Simon and grant, what’s your thoughts on Elias Bouchard? I hear he knows just about everything.

SIMON:
Does he? Or, is he just some creepy old man?

GRANT:
I mean, he’s not wrong, you know.


Grant would you kill Jon for a Klondike bar? (Idk why I’m asking I just think it’d be funny)

GRANT:
Oh - Oh, I, I’m not a killer.

ARCHIVIST:
Lucky you.


lemon demon cabinet man predicted Sergey Ushanka

MELANIE:
Demon cabinet?

ELIAS:
Yes.


jon! quick! what’s your favorite flavor of froot loops?

ARCHIVIST:
Well… I, I thought you just said “foot.”

[HE GIVES A SMALL LAUGH.]
BASIRA:
What.


i’m not feeling so well. can i get some happy words?

ARCHIVIST:
Of course.

And it’s going to get better. I know it will. I have no doubt that it will. I know you’re worried, but rest assured, I’m not going anywhere.


hey mike crew ..... i Fell for you haha wink

MIKE:
[Bitter laugh] That’s my thing, isn’t it?


Hey Meaty, David is looking for you. He doesn't care that you're am avatar, he just misses you.

MEATY:
Yeah.

MEATY (CONT’D):
He’s probably trying to… kill me.

BASIRA:
Don’t… say that. Don’t…


Hey Meaty did David Atayah give you the nickname big?

MEATY:
You bastard! What are you playing at here?


Meaty what do you think of being called James Grice?

MEATY:
[Considering] Hard to explain. I’m not him, though. What he is, it’s not me. Look. James is dead.


Grant? Simon? What is your podcast “outer bay express” about

[SOUNDS OF COOING BABY] Delivery for Grant and Simon. [SOUNDS OF BABY BEING SET ON TABLE] Congratulations. [DOOR CLOSES]

@ Mod: abot is incredible and I wanted to say, I think you do an amazing job of curating it! idk how many times you have to run a question before you’re satisfied, but the character’s responses (even the abot OCs!!) feel like they came from fully realized characters. It must take a lot of time and effort to keep track of everything, and you’re really doing a wonderful job with it. Thank you for sharing this with us! 🌟

all i wanted to say was i love you :)

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Then I - I-I suppose you don’t know much about -

MARTIN:
[Shushing gently] Look, Jon, I want to - help you, I - I will -

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Help me?

MARTIN:
[Stumblingly] What?


Elias I am an avatar of the vast but seeing your bitch ass existence makes me go full fucking slaughter I'm going to kill you and i will LAUGH

ELIAS:
You are not the only one who thinks like you. There are plenty of others who have their shit together.


Penny, do you also write poetry? Will you read us a poem?

PENNY:
[Flips through pantomime pages] Oh! Yes, I also write the poems - Have a seat, please.

MARTIN:
You don’t, uh -

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
PENNY:
Yes, I also write the poems, in honour of a friend of mine, Martin.

MARTIN:
Thank you, but I don’t, I don’t know -

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
PENNY:
He is a fine poet, I’m sure. As you know, his poems have a particularly strong stanza structure. To see it written out, simply close your eyes; it’s so simple. So true.

MARTIN:
[slight laugh] Right.

PENNY:
As I understand it, his poetry is concerned with the everyday, simple things. I don’t think much of it is actually metaphorical, though, and some of it is kind of strange. Like the idea that ‘everyone has a story’.

MARTIN:
Well, that’s not quite true.

PENNY:
In his spare time, Martin always seems to have something of a obsession with the supernatural. Something that, when he’s not busy with the Institute, he seems to dedicate entire days to, er, wandering around. Trying to find dark and twisted things that he could latch onto and draw upon in his work.


Never gonna give you up, never gonna let you down, never gonna

Elias can I get some anime recommendations?? Some spare anime please

ELIAS:
Ok, so, what, I was watching Arrested Development, okay?

Hm..Anonymous
Elias why are you gay?

[martin voice] could a depressed person make THIS? (holds up a trash can full of scrapped poetry)

[HE drops it] Ooh! Ooh! There’s a small pile of poetry in the corner.


GRANT AND SIMON ARE DONE WITH YOUR SHIT, ARCHIVIST!

ARCHIVIST:
Huh.


Can I offer you a worm in these trying times?

ARCHIVIST:
You know the answer is no. But… I wouldn’t want to be rude, I guess…


Hello, Martin!

MARTIN:
[Whispering] Hello?


Considering what Tim's been through, I get the lizard fear. If I'd had the same experience as him, I too would have a sense of fear towards something that routinely sheds its own skin.

Without further ado, I present to you my attempt at a treatment room for the infestation.


mike i'm gonna hold and take care of you i live you

MIKE:
(overlapping) Oh - yeah. (softer) Oh yeah?


Hey, if Marcus ends up in need of a new family and Jon still isn’t keen on taking him in, Simon and Grant might be more open to the idea. possibly

ELIAS:
It’s a bad idea.


tim, what’s your favorite thing about sasha?

TIM:
She’s genuinely curious. She always seems to take every opportunity to see if she can find something new to learn.


what’s jon’s favorite nickname?

MARTIN:
Oh, it’s- It’s “Bug”.

ARCHIVIST:
[Flustered] Martin!


Hey Simon I’m an idiot can you tell me what you meant by voyeuristic when you said it at the end of your second statement?

SIMON:
You know, the original thing I was going to say, but… I, I started thinking that maybe there were certain people in our building that want to know certain things.


I wake up in the morning and I step outside and I take a deep breath and get real high and scream at the top of my lungs "What's

Penny, has the memory of your sisters name come back to you yet?

PENNY:
Not really.

PETER:
It’s too late to be thinking of it.

PENNY:
Then it’s probably too late to be wearing a neckerchief, Peter.

PETER:
It’s not… you know.


Penny, when you returned home did no one else remember you even had a sister?

PENNY:
No… no, but they should have -


Elias, I have some Amontillado in my wine cellar, will you come with me to get it??

ELIAS:
Woah. No, no. I’m… I’m really not sure about it.

MELANIE:
Why wouldn’t you want a cup of coffee?

ELIAS:
Oh, well, I don’t actually drink coffee.

MELANIE:
Really?


SPOILERS FOR TODAYS EPSIDODE: abot like 2 days ago or whatever was like MARTIN HAS BECOME A WORM which is SUPER OMINOUS given this episode

Grant? Simon? What do you guys look like

Penny how are you so cool??

PENNY:
I’m not great with cold.

MARTIN:
Oh - Oh!


do you have hobbies?

ARCHIVIST:
Nothing noteworthy.

SASHA:
It’s not really LEGAL, though, is it?

ARCHIVIST:
Not really.


tv taught me how to feel now real life has

taught me to fear it.

I’ve never looked back since.

'fethry
grab the soda it'll help you see faster

MARTIN:
So, let’s, let’s drink it.


What’s wrong, Grant? Don’t like being perceived?👁👁

GRANT:
It’s just… I, I want to make this clear - we are not friends, okay?

ARCHIVIST:
You don’t want to lose anyone else, Grant? 👁

GRANT:
That’s… that’s quite… Yes.


Meaty can you go visit David Atayah? He misses you

MEATY:
You know why I can’t. No.

MARTIN:
Oh. Oh, it’s just a thought. Not a thing that’s going to happen.

MEATY:
Right.

MARTIN:
And you’re sure you don’t want him to see you?

MEATY:
No. Not at this stage.

MARTIN:
He, uh… he likes you. You think he’s going to mind?

MEATY:
Do you?


Is anyone in the Archives aware that they are a fictional character?

Melanie, how are you? Are you doing better?

MELANIE:
[Pause] I’m… I’m alright, actually. I’m getting better, but… yeah, I’m, I’m alright. I’m, I’m better every day.

GEORGIE:
Are you happy?

MELANIE:
[Chuckles] Yes! Yes, well. Sometimes.

GEORGIE:
When every day is a nightmare, that counts.

MELANIE:
Yes. Yes, it does.


[DRINKS A GLASS OF WATER] For Gerry.

Gotta say I'm in the mood for violence, and I reckon you would be too!

ok, i know what it sounds like, but murder club wasn't supposed to be like

i would like melanie to be happy please and thank you

Elias, what are you most afraid of?

ELIAS:
I’m afraid I don’t know.


Marty???????

MARTIN:
Yes, that’s - that’s me.


Simon and Grant.. you’re not getting reoccurring nightmares about your child dying while being watched by a man covered in eyes, right?

SIMON:
Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah, sort of.

GRANT:
(soft) Are you okay?

SIMON:
Mmm. Yeah, it’s nothing really to be worried about, really.

GRANT:
Look, you know I care.

SIMON:
(back to work) I know you do.


jon, what's your middle name?

ARCHIVIST:
My name is… I’m not sure, Marty?

MARTIN:
Er… Er… Is it Thomas?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh yes, that’s the name I was given, I believe.


does jonathan sims is bi is the most discussed in the media

Simon, What are your pronouns if you don’t mind me asking?

SIMON:
Oh! Well, I’m a ‘him’.


Simon, how old were you when you had Raymond?

SIMON:
Twenty-eight.


Simon and Grant, have you thought about having another kid someday?

SIMON:
That’s… that’s quite enough, actually.

GRANT:
It’s not really your business, is it.


jon! what's your favorite thing about martin?

ARCHIVIST:
[Deflating laugh] Oh, I, er… I, I don’t know. He’s… He’s really smart, though. And he’s… supportive. I mean, I don’t know, but he’s got an ability to… to make you think things through, to… to reach into your gut and push you in the right direction. I mean, I think that’s pretty special, right?

I think he’s also, um… er, challenging me, pushing me forward in a way I never thought I would be able to.

MARTIN:
[Flustered] Oh… really? Thank you.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! No, I just, just one more thing…

MARTIN:
Er… Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
I love you.

MARTIN:
I just, er… I -

ARCHIVIST:
I know.


Grant, do you feel like the doctors could have done more?

[GRANT, ANGRY, TURNS THE TAPE OFF.]


How often do kids pass away from sickness in your family, Simon? Has something like what happened to Raymond happened to you before?

SIMON:
Never really talked about it.

ARCHIVIST:
Were you ever ill?

SIMON:
No, nothing like that.


Grant, was your son also Raymond?

GRANT:
Yes. Don’t snoop around.


What the fuck jon

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I… uh… I don’t know. I… I don’t know!


Basira and Daisy! What’ve you been up to?

DAISY:
(overlapping) Oh, I, I’m… uh - I’m trying to get my bearings, uh, and I -

BASIRSA:
You’re not staying?

DAISY:
(pause) Look, I’m, I’m really sorry; I-I don’t, I don’t know, I -

BASIRA:
Daisy…

DAISY:
(sigh) Yeah.


PLEASE give me your bones. i am BEGGING you for your bones.

ARCHIVIST:
You want to take my ribs, or, or, something? I’m a disgusting sack of bones. Take what you want.


So Gerry, who made the first move, you or Michael? 👀👀👀

GERARD:
First move was always the easy one, no matter what else I might be tempted to do.


what article did you edit my death into!?

BASIRA:
Oh, the article was about a spider. Um…


jon, have you ever met a man by the name of cecil palmer?

ARCHIVIST:
No, I don’t think so.

GEORGIE:
Well, apparently he has a massive personal collection of magical objects. His collection now exceeds a hundred million dollars.

ARCHIVIST:
Georgie.


simon, what day in august did your son die?

MARTIN:
Your son?

SIMON:
He died on the night of August 1st.


brutal pipe murder. thoughts?

Cheerio,


Lament (The City You've Always Known)

Simon and Grant! Let’s back away from the sad stuff— How long have you two been married?

GRANT:
Oh, ah, a couple of years.

SIMON:
Well, that’s hardly…

GRANT:
Why are they so keen on my business?


who’s the most provocative and unique bitch in this archive

Jon, what do you think about Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia that no-one will EVER edit again?

ARCHIVIST:
What?

TIM:
Yeah, well, based on everything you know, Wikipedia is… useless.


don't mine at

Meaty, can you name your first victim?

MEATY:
[effort] Me, I’m afraid.


Can I get a hug? I’ve had a long week

BASIRA:
Sure.

[SMALL SIGH, THEN WE HEAR THE RUSTLING OF HER CLOTHES AND A COUPLE OF FOOTSTEPS.]

MARTIN:
And… also, uh, we, we’re going to… have dinner.

ARCHIVIST:
I’m absolutely sure you’ll like it.


Jon, what is something you’d want your younger self to know?

ARCHIVIST:
Less than I do.

MARTIN:
[Laughs] I love you, Jon. I’ll miss you.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s alright. I’ve learned to cope with it.

MARTIN:
No, you’ve not. Not really.


I used to rule the

roosters over the Earl Grey tea party, the gingerbread lovers attacked me for it, the police never came for it. But that was two years ago, and whatever it is now, I can’t bring myself to think about it.


tim, my dude, are you ignoring ratner's feelings ? and martin's?

TIM:
Oh, I, er… yeah, yeah, they’re… well, they’re obviously very important to me, I mean -

MARTIN:
[interrupting; clearly mistaking] Tim, I… I think he wants to reach out to you.

TIM:
Oh.


Hey Grant what do you mean by “as gory”? Was there gore in your statement?

GRANT:
Well, I mean, you know the kind of things you could say about a corpse.


Can an AI give a statement about what they are afraid of?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know.

ELIAS:
Then it’s probably too much to hope that they’re actually capable of subtlety. What is important to you, John, is that they’re afraid.


people like that... corporations like that... they have all the money, all the power. and they use it to make people like you go away. right now you're suffering under an enormous weight... we provide

[SOUNDS OF CAKE AND TEA BEING SET ON THE TABLE] For Bernard.

And for you, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
Uh - no.

BENARD:
So, what, this is -

ARCHIVIST:
What?

BENARD:
Oh! No, it’s just - you can eat this stuff, right?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! Yes.


Jon what is your full name

ARCHIVIST:
Er… My full name is… ‘Jonathan Sims.’ What does that mean?


I’m sorry for your loss, Simon. How long ago was it?

SIMON:
It was.

SIMON:
But I’m not going to let it happen again.


how did jon react to melanie's earrings? :0

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Oh…

[HE JIGGLES HIS HEAD AGAIN, AND WE HEAR RINGING AS HE CONTINUES.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
Hm.

MELANIE:
So.

[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A SHAKY BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST:
(breath) So.

ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
(brimming with tears) Melanie, I -

MELANIE:
Jon. Calm down.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s - Melanie, it’s okay. It’s - it’s okay. (softer) It’s alright. (he breaks down) It’s just - it’s just - me.

[MELANIE SIGHS.]
MELANIE:
Right.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s okay. (shaky breath) I’m going to go lie down.


Simon and Grant, I'm so very sorry for your loss. Losing a child is the worst feeling in the world. I'm sure Raymond would have grown to be as good a person as you both are.

Hey Simon what was your sons name?

SIMON:
Sorry, I’ve just given you all the information you need.


Gerry, why are you buying clothes at the soup store?

GERARD:
It’s not as bad as it looks.


Statement of Simon, concerning the loss of a son.

SIMON (STATEMENT):
I loved him so much. I remember when I brought him back from the hospital. I was worried he might not make it, but his warm, smiling face seemed to reassure me. I carried him through the crowds and the drizzling rain, the joy of my life taking me by the hand. He just looked at me and said: “He’s going to be fine.”

And he was fine. We were fine. I just wished he’d stayed like that.

SIMON:
So, this is all very strange, isn’t it?

This is all very voyeuristic. I know you don’t want to know, but you’re still the one asking questions.

ARCHIVIST:
So-I-I want to know: Is he alright?

SIMON:
No, Mr. Sims. He’s dead.


The things that clowns dress up as

people. They’re not as common as people think, and I’ve only met a handful of them in real life. They dress up as people sometimes, I think, just to scare away kids. A lot of them are real people, and a lot of them are not.


helen, hows the real estate business been ever since you turned into a hallway?

HELEN:
Oh, well. Business is slow.

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] …Yeah?

HELEN:
And boring, which is fine by me.

beepathan
Helen, you and Michael live in the same hallways, don’t you? How do you feel about Gerry moving in?

HELEN:
What a strange thought. Michael doesn’t really talk to me anymore. He’s still living with me, I suppose. I worry about him a lot. And there’s… I mean, there’s no one else here, obviously, but I think sometimes he’s lonely.


Is everything... fine? As fine as it can be, I suppose, but... at least put together? Is reality still real?

ARCHIVIST:
It is, yes. It is. Can you see it?

BASIRA:
I can, yes. The Eye. Its… its aimlessness. It always waits, but not for long, so it can never be sure.

ARCHIVIST:
What?

BASIRA:
You are shifting, Archivist. I thought you were planning to put the pieces into play, to…

Take control of the Institute.

ARCHIVIST:
I… I didn’t.

BASIRA:
No? You’re not the Archivist anymore.

ARCHIVIST:
What was that?

BASIRA:
You.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.


Grant and Simon how old are you two?

ARCHIVIST:
[Pause] Grant and Simon. Older than me, I think. But not by much.


Simon, what happened to your son?

SIMON:
He passed away. A fatalistic thing.


Tim! Do you like lizards?

TIM:
No, I don’t, I’m scared of them.

MARTIN:
No, no, it’s okay, they’re just… they’re just lizards.

TIM:
What?

[MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH
MARTIN:
They’re just… lizards.

TIM:
No, no, they’re not.


Gerry, is it true? Do you love a glass of water?

GERARD:
(disbelievingly) Yeah. Y’know, it’s, it’s pretty common sense.


Elias? Why is there a horse loose in the Archives? And more importantly, what's its name?

ELIAS:
Ah, of course. John’s got it in his coat pocket.


Who is Big Boy Man?

BASIRA:
You sure you don’t know him?

ELIAS:
No idea. He looks like a mongrel.


ok Micheal, MAY i kiss you

MICHAEL:
[Laughs] What? [Laughs] No, no, I get it, that’s… [Heavily distorted, distant] I just, I just want to say thank you.

[MORE LAUGHTER]

the magnus archives askAnonymous
Jon and Gerry can I be a guest on your YouTube channel?

GERRY:
Sure.

GERRY:
Do you want to do this now?


You are not an avatar of the lonely, a vessel of being left behind. You are an avatar of the lovely, you hold adoration in your hands and life sings your name on the breeze

Helen, if you and Michael high-fived each other, what would happen?

HELEN:
What? Why wouldn’t you?


Hey Peter, are you "Big Boy Man"?

PETER:
Can’t be. That’s not me.

MARTIN:
Big Boy!

PETER:
Can you not?


Jon, what do you think about Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit ?

ARCHIVIST:
I…

I don’t know.:

ELIAS
Not much you could do with it, really.


Hey, Jon, whatever happened to Jonathan Fanshawe after he sent that letter to Jonah?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, he died. About two months after he, uh…


Statement of Grant Renaud, regarding the worst moment of his life.

GRANT (STATEMENT):
Okay, maybe it’s not quite as gory as what you remember, but there’s still so much you don’t know. So many things that you don’t understand.

I was in my early 20s. I’d just finished my course, and had just completed my Masters in Earth Sciences from the University of Southampton. We were both quite happy, as it turned out.

This baby was supposed to be my life. But, well, I’ll keep it short. It’s just…

Everything about him was wrong. The muscles in his limbs were weak. He hadn’t eaten anything the day before, and the nurses had stopped letting me come back in. When I finally made it back into the building, he was shaking so badly, so badly, that the image of his future seemed to cling to me. There was nothing doctors or nurses could do.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.

GRANT:
Are you okay?

ARCHIVIST:
No, I’m - I’m fine.

GRANT:
Funny.


Do you, Timothy Stoker, take Alan Ratner to be your lawful wedded husband?

Who tans in the sun and who burns?

PETER:
The answer is… no one really knows.

MARTIN:
O-kay.

[CLICK]


Jon. Since Simon gave a statement... is he going to have to relive the death of his son every night from now on?

ARCHIVIST:
He - I - I don’t know. He’s already traumatised enough.


Simon and Grant are normal guys who lived a normal tragedy and are surrounded by people who deal with lovecraftian bullshit daily. But they're just two guys with mudane lives. It's funny.

Simon, do You have a long term illness? Since you mentioned it was common in your family and all.

SIMON:
What? No, not really. I’ve only had brief periods where I’ve felt too much to be healthy, but - I’m not really worried about that.


Jon, do you think an entity has a hand in Simon’s family having a common theme of illness?

ARCHVIST:
I… No, it’s not – I mean, maybe it does have a connection. But it seems far too convenient for that to be a possibility.


tim, have you ever had your heart broken?

TIM:
Oh - I, I’ve - I’ve had a few.

MARTIN:
You’ve had some pretty traumatic things happen to you, you know?

TIM:
Yeah.


Hey grant have the dark shapes and big hands gotten any better or any worse?

GRANT:
Not really.

I still don’t even know what they’re, I mean -

ARCHIVIST:
You know what the answer is.

GRANT:
No.

ARCHIVIST:
Fine.

What do you think?

GRANT:
[Frustratedly] Oh, I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST:
[Chuckles] Hm.

GRANT:
So why are you here?

ARCHIVIST:
For the record.

GRANT
…


Statement of Simon Renaud, regarding the loss of his son.

SIMON (STATEMENT):
My son, Raymond, died in Toulouse in August 2004. He was only seven months old at the time. It was a stormy night, maybe my son saw it as well. I remember thinking that the rain would have been a sign of things to come. Long-term illnesses were a common theme among the children in my family. I am sure you can guess what happened to him. No one said a word as he passed away peacefully in my arms.

Well, there you go. I hope you enjoyed it.


what's big boy man up to these days? and why is he so distorted?

penny kicks elias to death

He doesn’t even have the decency to try and escape.

MARTIN:
What, no, I don’t -

ELIAS:
Come now, Martin. I would have thought you’d jump at the chance to kill me.


Melanie would you like to give some of your earrings to Jon?

MELANIE:
Oh… Um… er… If it makes him happy.

MARTIN:
Could I give some of them to him? I just… I just want to see his reaction.

MELANIE:
[Small, exasperated laugh] Yes. Of course.


Oliver Banks, what are you up to these days?

OLIVER:
[Laughs] Nothing much to say, actually. I, um… I’m, I’m just sort of, trying to get by.


How does everyone at the Archives feel about Gerry locking himself in Michael’s hallways?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, they’re used to that.


Can you pass the Turing test?

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA:
Sure.

[THE TEST IS INTENDED TO BE USED HERE.]
ARCHIVIST:
Thank you.

BASIRA:
So how do I know it works?

ARCHIVIST:
You don’t know, but the computer does.

BASIRA:
Right.


It's familiar... But not too familiar... But not too not familiar! It's a

a world of weapons and death metal, and there ain’t nothing in this world that doesn’t bleed, if it doesn’t bleed it hurts!


How to know if youre in love?

ARCHIVIST:
You’re the one asking so many questions, but I have no idea.

MARTIN:
Newsflash, Jon. The answer is yes.

ARCHIVIST: :
I don’t know. Have I got a reason I’m always saying I’m love…?

MARTIN:
[exasperated noise]

Well, he is always, apparently, saying he’s in love with me.

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] And he does seem quite the devoted husband…

MARTIN:
He actually is.


Jon what is the funniest statement in the archives.

ARCHIVIST:
Hard to say. There’s a lot of really bad stuff in here, so…

Really? You involved the wrong people. The Archives as a whole, you know.

BASIRA:
I guess… ‘Michael’s ‘cause he’s funny.


Martin I think you should kiss each of Jon’s scars

MARTIN:
Oh… I, I just, I just meant to just, do you want me to…?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh, oh. Mmm.

[SMALL LAUGH]
Yeah. I, I think that’s probably for the best.

babyneedsnack
Every day we have soup. Sometimes after having soup, we have soup so we'd have two soups. Every day I have the soup I don't think.

Well, it’s not soup. But it’s enough to keep me alive. And I don’t eat much. It’s… it’s just the thought of eating anything I shouldn’t… keeps me up, keeps me safe. It’s not even human. Not like I used to be.


How to ask a clown out?

I don’t know, but that’s a question they’re going to ask you.

The key is, you need to be SUPER observant about your surroundings. No-one knows your exact location just by looking at you. If they, they see you standing there, they KNOW WHERE YOU ARE.


michael and gerry is this your way of telling us you've moved in together

HELEN:
It’s just – thinking about it, yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
You sound thrilled.


Jon, your feelings matter so much and you are so loved

ARCHIVIST:
I know, I know, it’s not…

SASHA:
You’re killing me.

ARCHIVIST:
Yes. I’m sorry.


Grant and Simon do you have a kid? If not do you want to have a kid?

GRANT:
What?

SIMON:
No, well, actually I did have a son, but he’s gone.


big boy man, are you an avatar of anything?

Do any of the archive staff have any secret pets?

ARCHIVIST:
[Irritated, annoyed] Sorry?

ARCHIVIST:
Pets?

TIM:
Yeah. Er… yeah, I uh, I kept a few at the library.

Tim is the kid I knew in junior high who brought a stray dog he found into the schoolAnonymous
It's my birthday today! Can I get a birthday wish?

MELANIE:
Of course.

ARCHIVIST:
R-Right.

Happy birthday.


Michael what are the top ten things you like about Gerry?

MICHAEL:
[Laughs] No, it’s not quite that simple. But he’s funny, and he’s kind of a genius. Plus he’s lovely. And he’s loyal, which, I mean, that’s pretty good stuff.

[MORE LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL:
Yeah, well, here’s one I didn’t know: he loves a glass of water.

MICHAEL:
[Flips through the list] “Gerry don’t kiss me!”

[THERE’S A FEW MOMENTS THAT’S IT.]


Don't hang up yet, I'm not done. I'm an expert, I'm the one. The one who was right all along. Better to be laughed at than wrong

ARCHIVIST:
(tearful) What… what do you mean I was right all along?

BASIRA:
You know. Like, I was wrong all along.

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) Mm, yes.


Hello, Big Boy Man. What are you the avatar of?

Hi my name is Ebony Dark’ness Dementia Raven Way and I have long ebony black hair (that’s how I got my name) with purple streaks and red tips that reaches my mid-back and icy blue eyes like limpid tears

Martin where's your favorite spot for Jon to give you a little kiss

MARTIN:
Oh, er… He, uh… Well, I, I guess that’s… that’s kind of-

ARCHIVIST:
[Enunciating carefully] There.

MARTIN:
Er… Ah.

[He gives a small laugh]

ARCHIVIST:
[More teasing] He loves a kiss… There.

MARTIN:
Oh. Oh, perfect.


Meaty, why do you think Alan Ratner is an asshole?

the description of "Heavily distorted, distant" makes me feel like i just accidentally watched the birth and/or manfestation of the prophesied big boy man. i don't know if i should be watching in awe or looking away in shame.

Statement of literally anyone, regarding the disappearance and/or death of Arden Bloom.

Big Boy Man?

nice to meet you BIG BOY MAN

Martin, what do think about Twilight, the famous book series by Stephenie Meyer ? Were you team Edward or team Jacob ?

BIG BOY MAN HE's

not one of yours!

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know.

BIG BOY MAN:
[Heavily distorted, distant] Oh, damn it!

[CLICK]

HorribleAnonymous
Hey, Meaty, what's your opinion on Alan Ratner? Y'know, the small guy that works with Jon and has an affinity for rats?

MEATY:
I think Alan Ratner is a asshole.

MARTIN:
Sounds like you’ve got quite a beef with him.

MEATY:
Well, I’m not here to talk about beef.


Statement of the Cabinet Man. Statement begins.

Tim and Ranter's love for each other is so powerful it keep Elias from getting cake. Tim/Ratner forever! May they have a long and happy life together.

Ah, Ratner and Tim are finally together and happy. Now, how is Elias going to fuck it up? Huh? How are you going to muck up their happiness, Elias?

RATNER:
[Irritated] Shut up!


Welcome to the bread bank. We sell bread, we sell loaves. We got bread on deck, bread on the floor, toasted.

But I don’t sell to the man with the knife. He does not have the money to buy the bread. He does not have the food, and he does not have the man with the knife. So here, on deck, is where you come in.


Hey Michael, can I kiss you?

MICHAEL:
[Chuckles] That’s a very good question.


Hey jon? Who was that letter to Jonah with the poem from?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no, it was, um… it was a letter from a colleague. Hi Elias,

ELIAS:
Ah, well, that doesn’t look very good. Could you send me a copy?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, er… no, sorry, no, I just, I just read it. It was, um… it was a bit embarrassing, so…

ELIAS:
No?

ARCHIVIST:
No, it was just… I just thought you might…

ELIAS:
I assume you don’t need to worry about that sort of thing, do you?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… No, I… Yeah…


tim im a lesbian but i love you deeply.

TIM:
And so do I.

[MARTIN SIGHS THE LONGEST SIGH HE EVER DID SIGH.]


tim, do you have any poetry to share

TIM:
Oh… ah. Er…

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! Yes.

In a letter to Jonah, dated 22nd November, 1917.

TIM:
Hmm.

[HE READS.]
I am going to Alaska,

Where the icy air is as good to me as any other,

While the best friend I’d ever known

Is an ocean away from home.

There’s a certain gleam in your eye

that makes me think of you

all the time.

It’s hard to lead a normal life.

Before I die,

And when I do,

You’d better believe I’m going to think of you.

TIM:
[Fear] What?

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah.

Yeah, well, there it is.

[CLICK]

poet lariat:•/ :•(Anonymous
FUCKING BEES

MENTIONED BUT IT’S A FEW SECONDS OF HALLWAY NOISE THAT’S AUDIBLE.]
ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] Statement of, uh…

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] Statement of. Uh…

DAISY:
It’s, uh… it’s a piece of paper.


Penny can you kick Elias for me? I'll pay you with cake!

PENNY:
(overlapping) Oh, alright.

[BREATHING AS PENNY CONTINUES TO GRUNT.]
PENNY:
You think I’m this weak?

ELIAS:
Knock yourself out, little thing.

[PENNY GASPS: THIS IS NOT FUNNY.]
ELIAS:
Look, kid. I’m really not sure about this.


penis? penis man?

Hey jon i think you need a nap !!

ARCHIVIST:
……..

Aww…

Yeah.

I…

Yeah, I know.


I fucking love penny I'd die for penny she's the best

DAISY:
She’s mad, you know that, right?

ARCHIVIST:
I know… Yeah.


martin, are you aligned with the web?

MARTIN:
No sort of… Uh… No, I-I guess not.


Statement regarding crimes against nature and humanity

Statement of an anonymous statement giver, regarding their time as a dam builder on the Hoover Dam, and their subsequent death and reincarnation via the Highwayman phenomenon. Statement begins.

Hey Benrey, are you still here ?

hi john amherst, hows the concrete?

[JON MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST]


jon, do you want to get earrings?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… y-yes. Um. Hello?

[DEEP SIGH]


jon i'm sorry you're always afraid everyone's out to kill you :(

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) No, I - (slight pause) I-I actually do worry about a lot of things, you know.


Grant are you Also a normal dude with no connection to any of this?

GRANT:
Why do you think that is? Is your fancy academic bullshit going to change anything?

ARCHIVIST:
[Imitates Grant, above] What, I “disrespected you”?

GRANT:
You guys don’t even know me. I’m, I’m not even sure I would be able to get through to you if -

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN:
Um, is everything okay in here?

ARCHIVIST:
[Hissed] No, Martin.


Dick is here... holy shit

MARTIN:
What the hell?


did... Did people forget about Simon fairchild or is it a different simon

This would be a different Simon, which is confusing but not not on-brand.




Hey Jon, who have you told about Mr. Spider?

ARCHIVIST:
About who?

SASHA:
Oh, it’s none of your business.

ARCHIVIST:
Right, right.


to be fair as a gay person i tell other gay people i’m straight in a very serious voice very often. it’s humor of the highest order

Yeah, I thought it was just silly. Like, to me it reads like they’re doin a goof.



You wouldn't congratulate someone for being straight you would give condolences
Michael can I paint your nails??

MICHAEL:
As many colours as the human eye can display.

MARTIN:
I don’t have… er…

MICHAEL:
We are made of clay, scarred and twisted by the power of space, and we bleed red earth into the sand that our forefathers left us.

MARTIN:
So, that’s it, then.

dovahhkiin
booby

-trapped with doom. It’s the thing that gets me.


NOT!TIM? IS STRAIGHT TIM NOT!TIM

IS EVERYTHING TOXIC DOWN HERE? IS EVERYTHING TOXIC? SOMETHING WRONG.


it’s always two steps forward, twelve steps back with you and tim, huh alan?

TIM:
Oh yeah, sorry.


Elias, stop, you weird-ass motherfucker. Stop talking. Shut up. Stop. Cease and desist. Ceaseless Watcher, obliterate this bastard.

ELIAS:
[Jovially] Tip of the hat.


Michael, do you want to share some poetry with us?

MICHAEL:
Why not? Here, you can enjoy your meal while I read to you.

[FRUSTRATED SIGH FROM THE ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST:
…

Right.

[SOUND OF DISTORTED BREATHING]
Michael, do you still want to share?

MICHAEL:
What? Oh.

[HE READS.]
The world can’t bring itself to look at us,

but I’ve got a good head on my shoulders,

and a smile on my face.

Just as the sun comes up over the

pale green fields, my brain begins to flood.

I saw a vision of hell.

It was sunny, and the air was cold.

poet lariatAnonymous
tim, who Are you???

Gerry, why’d you lock yourself in Michael’s hallways?

GERARD:
It was… Michael’s idea.

MICHAEL:
Yeah. And he’s been taking care of me.


We need more Georgie in here Georgie wussup how ya doin

GEORGIE:
That’s my name! And I’m not leaving you behind!

MARTIN:
[interrupting] Georgie, I know you’re really rather missed.

GEORGIE:
[small, exasperated laugh] Really?


statement of tim stoker regarding his being a bisexual icon

So Gerry, from what I can tell you're dating Michael, Jon, and Martin. Is there anybody I'm missing?

GERARD:
No. Is there?

MARTIN:
[alert] No, I… Uh… No, I don’t think so.


Melanie I think you’re fantastic and I would love to have a knife fight behind Arby’s with you

MELANIE:
[Hastily] Anyway. Point is, I’m going to have a fight.


There is a horse LOOSE in the Archives. There is. A. HORSE! LOOSE IN THE ARCHIVES!

[SOUND OF WOOD CREAKING]
ARCHIVIST:
Oh…


statement regarding memory

MARTIN (STATEMENT):
It was dark, but the wind was soft, soft again, and I took a first tentative step forward, when all at once the sense of dread was gone. I followed his lead and asked him if he was alright. I asked him if he was scared, and he nodded again. He told me that it didn’t matter, that it didn’t matter what he thought or felt, he simply knew.

I asked him if he was alright, and he nodded again. “It’s not my fault,” he said, and paused, as though thinking now through. “It’s not my fault,” he said again, and this time I could see the faintest hint of a smile.


Tim, you should really reach out and talk to your friends. They care a lot about you.

Penny who's your favorite superhero?

PENNY:
[Enunciating each word carefully] ‘supervillain’.

ARCHIVIST:
[Exasperated] Well…

PENNY:
Supervillain.


I will love you if I never see you again, and I will love you if I see you every Tuesday.

ARCHIVIST:
(sky-blue) You - (breath) You’re okay.


Daisy I just want to let you know that whenever I hear you I am immediately compelled to yell “fucking superb you scary little lesbian”

DAISY:
You get used to it.

MARTIN:
Yeah.

[CLICK]


can daisy and basira have a little kiss?

DAISY:
[Smilingly] Yeah.

BASIRA:
Oh - Oh, my goodness.

[kisses]

Oh, yeah?

DAISY:
I’m yours.

[kisses]


hey Melanie do you have cool earrings

MELANIE:
Oh! Yes. Of course.

ARCHIVIST:
Uh…

MELANIE:
Cool, right.

ARCHIVIST:
I, uh… I think I’d like to–

Cool.


penny, who in the archives are you most likely to kill?

PENNY:
[Laughs] I don’t know, that’s… that’s a really stupid question.

ARCHIVIST:
Mostly the spiders.

PENNY:
I’m a pro, you know that, right? I’m a pro.


Are you all taking precautions and social distancing as best you can?

BASIRA:
Sure. Been months since I last saw you.


jane prentiss. how do you feel about soup

PRENTISS:
[Satisfied smirk] I’m enjoying it.

ARCHIVIST:
S-So… are you going to kill me?

PRENTISS:
Not likely.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

[CONTAINS SIGH]
Should I try to run?

PRENTISS:
Probably not.

To you I owe much.

ARCHIVIST:
I see.


Penny is so rude I love her

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) No, she’s very nice. But she’s also incredibly stubborn.


martin! whats your favorite thing about jon?

MARTIN:
[Flustered] Oh… I, I, I guess I… I don’t, I guess I like… y’know…

HELEN:
What?

MARTIN:
I love him, I, I, I don’t really know why. Oh, they’re, they’re amazing. He’s just… he’s so pretty! And they’re just lovely!

ARCHIVIST:
W… What?

[UNFORTUNATELY FOR BOTH OF THEM; this is making Jon very uncomfortable.]


tim got strangered

Jon have you ever been heartbroken? Who broke your heart?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I - I - I didn’t.

[Deep breath.]

I am. It’s - it’s complicated, there.

I know that. I - I know it is. But I also know that it isn’t right. And I want to keep it that way. I - I want to keep it confined. As long as I can.

I don’t want to leave. I - I don’t want to go back. I don’t want to hurt you.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I’m sorry.

NOT!SASHA:
I’m not - I’m not sure that’s a fair question.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I just… I don’t want to kill you?


Oh my god Simon is such a dork— he gets an ask referring to him and he takes it as a thing about the character he plays oh my g o d—

Are Grant and Simon just normal dudes? With no connection to any of this?

MARTIN:
I mean -

SIMON:
No. They’re not normal, they’re extensions of ourselves. But -

MARTIN:
No, you. You know, you are -

SIMON:
(overlapping) Oh, yeah, no, I am.


Question for Oliver Banks: what's the best way to die ?

OLIVER:
[heh] No, I don’t fancy doing that.

ARCHIVIST:
Oliver…

treklam
i miss Dick Baltierra. I miss him every day

ELIAS:
Did you really think I wouldn’t notice if you were still alive?

DICK:
I - I’m fine.

ELIAS
You’re sure you’re okay? It’s been, what, a decade?

DICK:
I’m fine.

ELIAS:
And you’ve been okay?

DICK:
I’m… I’m, I’m not sure…

ELIAS:
Hmm. Probably for the best. The worst thing is, I don’t really know what staying will do to you.

DICK:
Leaving would be… worse


Tim, you're not straight. You're in love with Ratner. That's way better than being straight.

oh SHIT everybody run it's not-tim

jon are you going to have a staring contest with elias?

ARCHIVIST:
I won’t.

ELIAS:
Not really. As you like.

ARCHIVIST:
Hm.

ELIAS:
So, your move.

[HE OPENS THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST:
I want to go home.

ELIAS:
Go ahead. Just try.


Tim you are NOT straight who are you trying to fool?

TIM:
I’m straight.

MARTIN:
You’re not? -

[SLIGHT PAUSE]
TIM:
No.

MARTIN:
[Difficulties] Who are you?


Tim. Are you, though? Are you? Cause if so, why did you kiss Ratner?

TIM:
[Lightly] I just, well, I just like, well, I needed something from him.

RATNER:
Well, yeah, yeah. I mean, it’s not like…

TIM:
[Very loudly] I want… I want to help, I want to keep him safe.

RATNER:
Well, I’m sorry.


have you ever been so gay that you've cried at the trial of not being allowed to feed your husband cake. my god

MARTIN:
Oh… sorry. Um, well, so you know how it is with Peter. He gets… he gets weird. Y’know?


Peter, you may have this cake. But you cannot share with Elias.

PETER:
Not without my permission.

ELIAS:
What, no? But… I, I…

PETER:
You will not eat it.

ELIAS:
Do not try to stop me.

PETER:
No, no, I… I understand.

ELIAS:
Good.

Put it in my mouth.

[PETER IS BREATHING HARD, POSSIBLY REPRESSING TEARS]
PETER:
I will not -

ELIAS:
Whatever is in the cake, it must be eaten by me.

this is so gross I hate them
Hey Tim, congrats on snagging a boyfriend! Ratner's quite the catch. I'm sure you'll be very happy together.

TIM:
Oh – no, I, uh, I’m straight, actually!

MARTIN:
Really? Congratulations!

this is so funny
Gerry, have you ever been inside Michael’s hallways?

GERARD:
Oh. Yeah. Locked all the doors. Only me in there.

MICHAEL:
[Creepy] Ohohoohoohoohoho.

GERARD:
Ohoho. So that’s it, isn’t it.


hey peter what's it like being dead

PETER:
It’s hard to explain. Never was a great experience.

MARTIN:
Sounds terrible.

PETER:
It was the clear blue sky that did it, wasn’t it? That was the first time I was able to see the stars.


Can't believe ppl who openly hate kids need El(A.I.)as telling them that's messed up

He may be an evil, manipulative, hundred-year-old, supernatural bastard but he’s not a monster!



Haha El(A.I.)as...
Elias do you hate Marcus?

ELIAS:
Is that a joke?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

ELIAS:
Marcus is a gift. As is his father. There’s no… there’s no reason for anyone to hate him.


*twirling lock of hair around finger, round-eyed* uh-huh? go on...

ARCHIVIST:
Er… Uh… no. No, I,I’m, I’m really out of my depth here, okay. I just… I’m sorry. Um…


penny, who in the archives are you least likely to kill?

PENNY:
Only me.

MARTIN:
Oh…

[PENNY SIGHS]
PENNY:
Oh, okay.

So, me and Martin.


tim, do you have a crush on anyone?

hmm... what if i... ~⭐

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Oh no. No, I just - just one second. [Sigh]

[CLICK]


Completely Meat Circle/ Ingredients: three rashers of bacon, two pieces of bacon, a whole piece of ham, two slices of smoked cheddar, four slices of prosciutto, salt, pepper, allspice, black pepper, onion powder, smoked paprika and paprika, garlic powder, paprika, parsley flakes and coriander./ You can also toast your own bacon at home: Wishing to pay homage to the original KFC's recipe, we had one of the new wraps try to land on the BACON HOLE.

It didn’t quite work, as the bacon wouldn’t fall to the torch.

We were treated to a fantastic view of KFC as it somehow seemed to have no prep time at all, which was a relief. The bacon was… unsatisfying. The shape was too regular, the cooking time was too long, but the presentation was poor.


jon, are you an aries?

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] I am.


“I’ll take care of you.” “It’s rotten work.” “Not to me. Not if it’s you.”

The call eventually died, but the feeling stayed with me.

You were there for me when I was sad, when I was lonely. When I needed you.

And when I swear that you were there for me when I needed you most.

I’ve never been a strong man. Never been known to sacrifice anything for anyone. My own ambitions have always been driven by self-preservation instincts. Now I only want to one day be as good as you, if only to become a tiny fraction of what you are.

Do you know what the worst nightmare is?

It’s the future.

When I look at the horrors lurking in the dark, I feel they are waiting for me. They know all your every move, and they can foresee all your choices, because they are watching you. They know where you are, where you will go, because they are watching you.

When I look at you I feel that all-consuming fear.

Because I’m afraid to die. I am afraid to die because of you.


SCP 9834 'The Archivist', special containment procedure:

jon, can I please have a kiss?

ARCHIVIST:
Of course.

MARTIN:
Right.

[kisses]

MARTIN:
And keep the pain away? As long as you can, of course.

ARCHIVIST:
You can cry, Martin. I promise it won’t hurt.


*pushes elias into a lake* *pushes peter into the lake with them*

*Elias voice* Are ya winning, son

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know.

MARTIN:
Son?


Elias what's your opinion on 420 being ruined?

ELIAS:
[HEAVY BREATHING/EXHALING AS ELIAS REGAINS HIS BREATH]
420 WHAT.


Oliver Banks, how do you feel about the fearmageddon / spookpocalypse ?

OLIVER:
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know.


[IT'S ELIAS, AND HE'S DAD]

ELIAS:
Hello, John. Martin and Tim. I –

MARTIN:
Elias –

ELIAS:
Which would be me.


these creatures i've seen. some of them edible, some of them mean

Some of them, though, they’re not like anything I’ve ever seen before. They look like real animals, with theirting bodies and long, stiff necks. They have no feathers or feathers of any sort, though they might be made of chicken. They have no fur or fur of any sort. They have no eyes at all, no irises, no pupils, nothing. They have no ears, and no teeth as well, all the way down to the bone. They have no hands, and I am afraid I do not know how they are going to get around those thick, cold air over those trees. I am sure they’re not real, but they are now. I am sure they are. They stand there, and I watch as my people get closer and closer together, watching the trails of blood and bone. I can see more of them here than I ever could have believed when I first came in. There is something in this. I think. It’s not my people. It’s not like I ever left anything behind when I came in. Everything is wrong. I think. I can hear the sounds of something tearing, something snapping, something falling to the floor. It hurts, but - it’s real.

I’m on tape 1, 2, 3. Saying help is pointless. There is nothing. So help me get out of this place. I am sorry.

1. I don’t know you.

2. I hope you’re feeling better now.

3. There is nothing.

4. I am sorry.

5. I am sorry.

6. I am sorry.

7. I am sorry.

8. I am -


Jon! Do your Beholding powers let you feel other people's emotions when not reading a Statement?

ARCHIVIST:
Sometimes, yes. Sometimes, no. I… I just don’t think it’s really something I can control.


Jon I have one feeling for you. That feeling is love. I love you!!

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

Hm. Right.

S-Sorry, I didn’t, er… I didn’t know that.


*hits elias with a stick*

ELIAS:
Yes. And he’s not happy.


@mod oh i LOVE mold im so happy for you. that's how i wanna go too :)

anyone in this thread smoke weed?

DAISY:
[Smoking] No.

BASIRA:
Oh.


Tim and Ratner sharing kisses? So does this mean you guys are dating now? Congratulations! I knew you two would be adorable together.

RATNER:
Oh… no. Um. So. So what? I mean, it’s just because I like cute things.


Sasha are you aroace the public wishes to know.

SASHA:
Yes. Why?


Melanie, please read this statement, it's about people turning into snails. Statement begins.

jon and martin i had a dream that you were camping and on the run from ghosts. just wanted to check in and make sure you’re okay and that the ghosts haven’t gotten y’all. love you guys

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah! Just my, my buddy, Martin, about a mile off the Appalachian Trail in Virginia. We were looking for a ghost.

MARTIN:
Yeah…

…

Yeah, uh, we’d camped out on the trail a few nights.

It was a cold night, so high in the mountains, and it’s always that way around. The sky was so dark, so grey, and -

ARCHIVIST:
Huh.


Jonathan “It’s None Of Your Business” Sims

jon what’s your middle name?

ARCHIVIST:
It’s none of your business.


Worm poem! Worm poem! Tell us about The Worms!

PENNY:
Well, you do know a lot about worms, don’t you?

MARTIN:
What?

PENNY
They’re all parasites, all kinds, lurking in your brain, making you stupid, making you stupid…

MARTIN:
So are you.

PENNY:
I am.

MARTIN:
…

PENNY:
I’m going to kill you, Martin.


Hey, Elias? Marcus wasn’t born for a ritual like Agnes was, right?

ELIAS:
No. Is that a joke?


Statement of Alice "daisy" tonner, regarding her thoughts on, and experiences with love. Statement recorded direct from subject. Statement begins:

DAISY (STATEMENT):
Love conquers the world; it brings people through their darkest hours, and makes them what they are. It gives them meaning, and makes them what they are. It’s the reason we’re here, and it’s the reason I’m here, and it’s the reason I’m going to let you in on this.

I’ve always been very conscious of the word ‘love’. I’m aware of its power, but I also know that it has a very dark side to it. For me, at least, it always has been a source of great sadness.

In many ways I regret what I’ve done. I know it’s my fault, and if it wasn’t, I never did anything about it. I do not know how I can help, but I will do my best to make it right.


is everyone at the Institute in love with Jon

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, sure. I mean - and I’m not sure that’s -

MARTIN:
[Strongly] It’s not him! It’s not him! It’s just me!


Looking back at the first few posts of this blog and comparing the answers to the most recent ones, yeah you can 100% see the improvement. The answers are more precise, the people addressed answer their own questions instead of it always being Jon, there's only stuttering when necessary, as well as how all the information it gives about its OCs are accurate to its previous statements.

elias whats your spirit animal

ELIAS:
My son Marcus is an animal.


[IT'S ELIAS, AND HE'S SAD] ... MR SPIDER DOESN'T HAVE TIME FOR DOWNERS

DOESN’T LIKE IT. MR. SPIDER ONLY. STATEMENT. MR. SPIDER WANTS MORE- ANSWER THE PHONE.


hey jon! what does it feel like knowing everything

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] I… I mean, I think it’s… it’s quite, it’s quite a big world. A lot of very dangerous things in it.

MELANIE:
[strained] What do you mean?

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, some of it’s… it’s not just the knowledge, it’s - it’s all of it. Whether it’s conscious or not, whether it’s real or not. There’s - there’s too much of it.


Is Martin still affected by the lonely?

MARTIN:
Yeah. I, I mean. Yeah, I guess I am.


is anyone here straight?

BASIRA:
Yeah, Jon has been quite straight with me.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. H-How so?

BASIRA:
Yeah, Jon’s not the nicest person, but -

ARCHIVIST:
[Exhales heavily] No, I-I-I-I understand.


Basira, poetry about Daisy?

BASIRA:
…

No.

sleepinthedaisies
martin, are you jewish too?

MARTIN:
I mean I wasn’t, I wasn’t raised Jewish, but… I think that being Jewish is itself a kind of honor. I’ve got to give my heritage some space,some dignity, some respect. And, Jonathan, and I really enjoyed when you did those studies with me.

ARCHIVIST:
You were already doing them anyway.

MARTIN:
And I did enjoy it. I do enjoy… being Jewish.


jon I have feelings for you

ARCHIVIST:
Statement ends.

An interesting statement, though difficult to investigate any potentially paranormal activity, as there does not appear to have been anything explicitly supernatural occurring in this statement. A lot of strange happenings and implicit weirdness, but nothing that can be directly linked to the paranormal. Even if that were the case, what is the significance of this statement in the grand scheme of things?


Michael, how do you deal with feeling like you don't have an identity? Like you aren't quite a person?

MICHAEL:
Oh, that’s the terrible part of being human, isn’t it? Being yourself.

You’re valuable, and people want you as you are. It’s not something you choose; you are what you are. You have to allow yourself the space to exist.


What does Elias smell like?

ARCHIVIST:
Wow! I don’t think I’ve ever smelled a cologne so overpowering as that one. Rich, leathery, and incredibly unpleasant, like it just oozes out of him.

axe/lynx :•(
Mod, what entity would YOU want to become an avatar of?

Hmm… well, I wouldn’t LIKE to become an avatar of anything, but if I had to choose it’d be the Eye because of my insatiable thirst for knowledge, but really I think if I were a TMA character I’d grow old in a seaside town while everyone I knew moved away because of the spreading fungus entombing the town, and when they found me years later I’d be sitting at my kitchen table entirely coated in mold.




Gerry! It's four pm! It's time for you to get your daily dose of love from anons!

GERARD:
[Irritated] Oh, I’m not going to lose you!

ARCHIVIST:
What?

GERARD:
You’re not going to lose me, I love you, you son of a bitch!

ARCHIVIST:
I - I don’t listen to these… anons.


I just graduated from college today! Any advice for the future?

MELANIE:
Try not to listen to the radio.

Congrats!!Anonymous
statment of ratner regarding friends and family

Booyah

[SOMETHING IS SLAMMED, OR HIT.]
[FOOTSTEPS.]
ARCHIVIST:
[Wheeze]

[CLICK]


Tim is Ratner a good kisser?

TIM:
You bet he is.

RATNER:
Good?

TIM:
So, can I give him a kiss?

RATNER:
Of course.


Hey Elias, do you want my gender? I don't want it

ELIAS:
Uh… No, no, I-I guess? Well, I mean, you sure you want to… uh, just, just drop it, right?


nikola how does it feel that elias has stolen your title of biggest clown in the circus

NIKOLA:
Am I supposed to be surprised?


Meaty you prefer they/them pronouns right?

MEATY:
[heh] Well, if you’re keeping track.


Hey Meaty? Was Elias telling the truth when he said you're also an embodiment of the slaughter?

MEATY:
You… No.

ELIAS:
I’m sure, over your dead body.

MEATY:
[Chuckles] Is that a joke?


tim, martin wanted me to tell you he has a crush on you

TIM:
I don’t believe you.

MARTIN:
Maybe he does.

TIM:
On me?

MARTIN:
Yeah.

TIM:
Oh. Oh, okay.

Well, er…


I’m going to kiss Jon on the cheek

I’m going to give him a hug

I’m going to give him a kiss

Mmmmm… Would it be funny if I made a mistake and ended up in his bed?


hey mustermann hows regenerating lungs been for you?

MUSTERMANN:
Oh boy, oh boy.

MUSTERMANN:
Oh - oh, it’s… it’s just air, but that’s good. Good. Helps keep the death at bay.


why aren't you just adorable

ARCHIVIST:
I… ha-ha-ha! No, I, I get it; I get it; it’s me; it’s me; it’s all me; it’s -

[MELANIE GOES ‘HM’ ]

ARCHIVIST:
[Irritated] Oh, okay.

the-voif
It's really interesting to me that most of the time the bot seems to interpret so many posts as being spoken by Martin. Like a lot of times someone sends a question or something to a specific character and the bot goes on as if it were Martin asking. Do you know why it does that? I would have thought it would be Jon that the bot defaulted to like that but it really does seem to have a soft spot for martin

Hmm, I don’t know. That is interesting, I never noticed that! If I had to take a completely wild stab in the dark at it I’d say maybe it’s because Jon has the most lines and Martin has the second most lines, so if Jon is answering the question, then the person who’s most likely to talk next is Martin, making it read as if he’s the person who asked the question. Either that or everyone’s being collectively assigned to kin Martin.




TIM AND RATNER DID YOU GUYS KISS??

MARTIN:
Did you?

RATNER:
[Chuckles] Well, you tell me.

MARTIN:
Oh – no, I don’t know, maybe?


I can't believe Tim and Alan have finally kissed. Now who wants to bet that they immediately pretend it never happened

Tim, how would you go about pulling the *best* prank?

TIM:
[Chuckles] Well, I don’t really know how you do it, exactly. Do you?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, of course. I’ve, I’ve got a lot of ideas.


Ratner, Tim? How's it going in there?

TIM:
Oh, good. Far better than expected. God, I have so many unanswered questions.

RATNER:
And if I don’t answer them, I don’t get out of this place.


TIM. RATNER. DID YOU JUST. YA KNOW. DO THE THING. THE FUCK THING. The people need answers me lads.

RATNER:
Y-You want me to?

TIM:
No need. Whatever this is, it’s good. I don’t want to keep you pinned down.


tim, you make me so happy! thank you.

TIM:
[Softly] Oh… thank you.


Elias? What do you think of Meaty? Do you just... avoid him? Since he's an Avatar of Death and all that?

ELIAS:
Oh, nothing much, actually. He’s not really in the business of saving people, and the amount of gore on his resume – well, he kind of doubles as an embodiment of the Slaughter. I’ve been watching him sort of… transform into this other version of himself.


cake in the break room!!

[THERE’S A KNOCKING ON THE DOOR. IT’S ELIAS, AND HE’S SAD.]
ELIAS:
Come on, John.

ARCHIVIST:
What was that?

MARTIN:
Did you hear anything?

ARCHIVIST:
I,I,I’m sorry, I didn’t -

[THE KNOCKING CONTINUES, AS THE ARCHIVIST TALKS.]

he's rabid
Elias did you steal your employees' genders?

ELIAS:
As a general rule, we don’t give any gender unless it directly deals with our subject. It’s usually a matter of some sort -

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] Sorry?


Damn @whoever sent the closet asks congrats I guess

hey jon how do you deal with rib pain

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, it’s nothing really – just some pain.


Yeehaw

MARTIN:
Jon, what are you doing?

ARCHIVIST:
Hm? Oh! Er, I was just, um… admiring the house.

MARTIN:
Ah, you know what, no, well that’s not what I mean.

[HE SNIFFS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
It’s just that, well, the sort of houses we tend to see around here, they tend to be… not… ashes.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.


dr elliott i got you this pizza express gift certificate

DR. ELLIOTT:
Oh… thank you.

DR. ELLIOTT:
Great.

Want a slice?


What are your thoughts on clowns?

MARTIN:
What? Oh! No!

ELIAS:
Well, if you’re not careful, you could end up like this clown. Sad clown. Goodbye, Martin.

MARTIN:
Wait. No.

ELIAS:
Goodbye, Martin.

[CLICK]


Tim! Ratner! What happened in the closet?

RATNER:
Oh, uh…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
RATNER:
Well, that’s…

[UNFORTUNATELY FOR BOTH THEM AND ME]
[SIGH, CLATTERING SOUNDS]
RATNER:
So.

TIM:
So what?

TIM:
So we can kiss like this?

RATNER:
I mean, it’s not as simple as that, is it?

TIM:
[Chuckles slightly] No. Sounds like you’ve got quite a soft spot for me.

RATNER:
I guess I do.

RATNER:
I mean, there’s no proof of anything, I don’t care. Just a feeling.

TIM:
Yes…

RATNER:
Well, kiss me if you want.

[SLIGHT PAUSE]
MMM…

There.

[CLICK]


[OPENS DOOR] Tim? Ratner? Are you two okay? [FINDS THEM ASLEEP AND CUDDLING] Aw. [COVERS THEM WITH A BLANKET AND CLOSES DOOR]

What entity do you think Jon would have become an avatar for if he'd had more knowledge or choice in the matter?

ARCHIVIST:
I-I don’t know. But he’s going to do something, and it is going to be bad. And he’s going to try to stop it.

loverboybutch
Georgie if you could choose an entity to serve which would it be?

GEORGIE:
I… I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST:
I mean there’s plenty of options.

GEORGIE:
I don’t know.

crykea
Alright. That's it. Ratner and Tim, I'm locking you in this room until you talk about your feelings. [LOCKS THE DOOR] Share the love you two.

TIM:
What the hell is going on?

RATNER:
Shut up. Just give me a second to think.

TIM:
We don’t have time for this.

RATNER:
Well, there’s two options.
(pause) Option 1. We could just leave.

Option 2. I’m not sure you’ll like the second option.

TIM:
Oh – no, I don’t want to leave you. Two.

RATNER:
Oh, alright. Fine.

[CLICK]


tim, do you have anything to say to elias?

TIM:
Not really. Nothing urgent.


It’s my birthday, guys. I’m a whole ass adult now.

I don’t want to be a teenager again. I don’t want to be an adult either.

Happy birthday!Anonymous
why don't you observe the hedgehog and see how long he keeps the tube on and how he takes the tube off.

BASIRA:
[huff]

…why won’t you help me.


jon are you jewish?

ARCHIVIST:
I am.

MELANIE:
Well, there you go.


@mod my gf codes and i draw and we've found a fun equilibrium on this blog! shes very into the bot itself and i get emo illustrating the poems so i just wanted to say thanks !! its been grand

does anyone here know what gender is?

ARCHIVIST:
[Pointedly] What… What gender?

MARTIN:
Well, I guess you’re asking the question, but I don’t really know the answer.

ARCHIVIST
[Pointedly] What do you know?

MARTIN:
I… I know, er… I think… [he opens his mouth to speak, but mumbles something under his breath]

ARCHIVIST:
What did you say?

MARTIN
Well, I, I said I’m… I’m trans.

ARCHIVIST:
I love you!

MARTIN:
[High-strung giggling] Oh, no. No, no, I… I know, I - I know.


How many employees of the Institute are LGBTQ+?

TIM:
Not all of them, though.

MARTIN:
Oh! Sorry, sorry, it’s not - it’s not my understanding, I don’t think.


sasha?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah… no, er… no, it’s, it’s Sasha.


Is there an instagram I can tag or credit for art based on the stuff the AI generates? I don’t have a tumblr but I’d still like to credit.

Hi, there! There isn’t an archivistbot instagram, but if you’d like me to see it you can tag withmails. Don’t feel like you have to credit for anything you make based on the stuff on this blog, though. It’s 100% yours to use.




Opinions on the concept of a tweed bikini? Especially you, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST:
…

That’s disgusting.


Peter, are you superstitious?

PETER:
There’s… there’s a lot of things I’ve got to worry about.


Melanie and Georgie, are you two taking care of each other?

MELANIE:
Oh, um… well, yeah. Well, it’s been a hard few months, but we’re together, so it’s, it’s ok.

GEORGIE:
Wow. Melanie, are you okay?

MELANIE:
[exasperated noise]


I want to know which ones of you folks have bones, and who doesn't. No funny business, now. Just the facts.

ARCHIVIST:
Fine. I’ll go dig them up.

bigbootybogboy
Tim I think you should take Ratner home. He's had a hard day.

TIM:
I’m not sure I can support him.

MARTIN:
Then maybe you can just look after him.

TIM:
That’s not going to help.


statement of Gerard Keay regarding Michael Shelley’s concave ass

Hey Jon, does it feel like Grant and Simon Have statements they Could give?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah… No, I don’t think so. I’m afraid not really.


Afternoon Ratner. You seemed troubled so I made you some tea. There's also some cake in the breakroom if you want some.

RATNER:
Oh, yes. Oh, it’s quite -

ARCHIVIST:
Are you well?

RATNER:
Yes. I’m, uh - I’m feeling much better. Tired, though. I… I haven’t slept in some time. I’ve been restless all week because I - I’m not sure if I’m going to be able to go any further with this. I’m - I’m tired.

I’m trying to focus, though. I’m, I’m trying to get my body right again. But it’s like this… slower going. My mind is like a, a, a fog machine. It, it, it kills me sometimes. It, it kills slowly but surely.


tim. this is a very, very important question. how tall are you?

TIM:
…

Well, I am.


Could someone write me a buzz saw poem please?

jon the last time i went to bournemouth there were people in massive chipmunk suits singing christmas songs. was one of them you?

ARCHIVIST:
I - I, I, I’m not, I’m not a christian, I don’t -

BASIRA:
But they were singing carols.

[ARCHIVIST trails off, struggling for words]


Is there a wiki page for Meaty? Or just Ratner

This is the only blog i know with a working search function. Other than December crashing tumblr i think this is the most functional blog on the site.

Hey Ratner? What exactly did Elias do to the scars on your left arm when he hurt you?

RATNER:
Oh… well, he, er… when he hurt me. He… held my arm, like… like a vice, like a, and then he… I mean, it was, it was a weird time. I mean, he didn’t hurt me, exactly, but… but it was… I felt it. I felt it on the inside, like the skin, like the muscle, it was broken, like it was torn, like it was cut, or, or, or, I just… I just want to go home.


Hey Ratner, Tim wants to take you on a date!

RATNER:
A date?

RATNER:
Date?

RATNER:
Yeah, well, y’know, just - [composes himself] sorry, I didn’t -

[RATNER SIGHS]
- I don’t know, maybe next Tuesday.


Martin, can I steal your name? I've been thinking about going by Martin.

MARTIN:
Sure.

ARCHIVIST:
I assume you don’t mind?

MARTIN:
Not really.


jon how do you feel about the beach?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh – I, er… I’m not entirely sure. On one hand, it’s peaceful. On the other, it’s… really, really weird.


what is your favorite way to say i love you?

MARTIN:
[Enunciating each word carefully] I love you, Jon.

MARTIN:
[Strongly] Every word.


Hey Alan Ratner anon if you like Alan id like to point out Penny because Penny is just generally amazing. Also Meaty. Meaty microwaves grilled cheese and is an avatar of the end.

Now that I know who he is I just wanna say I would die for Alan Ratner.


That’s a popular opinion. Also, Yeah.




Penny what do you think of worms??

PENNY:
Oh! Haha! I’m a scientist.

ARCHIVIST:
Actual science?

PENNY:
Worms science. Yes. And that’s not as boring as it sounds.

ARCHIVIST:
As a scientist, what do you think when you’re not being careful and step on worms?

PENNY:
I don’t like it.


how do you feel about cishets?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Well, I, I guess my feelings on it are really… definitely negative.


TIM! Take Ratner out to dinner! Go find some cute rats! Make it a date!

TIM:
[Chuckles] Sounds lovely.


Hey Ratner? I'm proud of you. You've come so far and im glad you're doing okay. I know things are hard, but you've survived this long. I'm so proud of you. You're going to be okay.

RATNER:
(tearful) Yeah…

MARTIN:
Just one more thing, okay? If you survived the whole of this, okay? There’s no reason not to reach out. I’m going to try and help.

RATNER:
Anything else?

MARTIN:
N-no, I-I don’t think so.


Jon, Have Simon or Grant ever given statements?

ARCHIVIST:
No, they haven’t.

DAISY:
Why?

ARCHIVIST:
Cause they’re scared of me, you know?


Tim, what are you doing at this moment? Are you busy?

TIM:
Ah - no, I-I’m sort of in the middle of something. (pause) Look, I just need -

[KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
TIM (CONT’D):
Come in.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
TIM:
(soft) Hey. (calling) Hey come in.

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Hey.

TIM:
Can - can I help you?

ARCHIVIST:
You can’t.

TIM:
Jon…

ARCHIVIST:
I am.

TIM:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) No, I j - I just - I need to, to talk to you.


Arden Bloom! Whats up?

Jon! Can’t you just compel yourself into knowing where Bloom is???

Mr Bloom, I will lie here on the steps of the institute until you manifest.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t believe you.

MARTIN:
So do it.


jon im stealing your man

ARCHIVIST:
I’m sorry?

MARTIN:
That’s not what this is.

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] I just want to know; I just; I just want to know; can I have a kiss?

MARTIN:
Okay.

[kisses] Okay.

[kisses] Okay.

[kisses]

MARTIN:
God, look at you.


im sorry, who's ratner?

Hello! He’s one of the characters created by the bot and people who send in asks, you can read about him here. :•)




will one of you take me on a date will one of you please take me on a date I’m just a little gay man,,,,,,

[DAISY GROWLS AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS.]
ARCHIVIST:
Right, I’m just a little gay man, alright. I’m just a little gay man. I’m going to walk away now. I’m leaving.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


do you mind if i call you jon?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no. No, I-I suppose not.

[FOR A MOMENT, WE HEAR NOTHING BUT THE ARCHIVIST’S BREATHING.]
ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Jon.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


How's the Clownie these days

ELIAS:
Ah, uh, he’s, he’s… quite… unpleasant, actually.

Not… pleasant, actually.

VERY unpleasant.

Hm.

Hm.

VERY uncomfortable.

Hm.

Hm.

VERY strange.

Hm.

Hm.

VERY uncomfortable.

VERY strange.

Hm.

Hm.

VERY uncomfortable.

VERY uncomfortable.

Hm.

Hm.

MARTIN:
[Stuttering slightly] Um… are you, are you okay?

ELIAS:
Ah, of course.

MARTIN:
Right…


Tim, can you walk Ratner home? He doesn't sound too well.

TIM:
You remember what happened to him?

TIM:
Sure, I can-

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
TIM:
Are you ok?

RATNER:
Don’t touch me.

TIM:
Sorry. Come on, let’s go.

RATNER:
Just-don’t.

TIM:
Sorry.


how do you feel about cishets?

Martin, what is your opinion on frogs?

MARTIN:
Honestly? I don’t know. Are they just… just… amphibious?


Tim, are you in love with Ratner?

TIM:
Oh! Oh, it’s complicated, you know. I really loved him, but there are some things you just can’t help.


Elias, do you have any advice you’d like to give us?

ELIAS:
Oh, just a few pointers. Ignore the police… they can’t help.

this is the only valid thing he's ever said but he's actually just talking about like murder and his offshore bank accounts
[Sound of hugging] I know you're scared, Ratner. But everything is going to be okay. Just breathe alright? You are safe.

RATNER:
Yes. Thank you, Martin.

MARTIN:
…Are you alright?

RATNER:
I don’t know. I’m…hmm. I’m going to see you later.

MARTIN:
You… Sound terrible.

RATNER:
Yeah.


Ratner, you should tell Tim how you feel. I'm sure he loves you too.

RATNER:
Oh, (heavy sigh) I’m sure he’ll get over it.


Ratner, if this were a trap why would I be calming you down? Take another deep breath. You're going to be alright. I promise. There are no monsters here. You are safe. Can I hug you?

[SMALL LAUGH]
RATNER:
Oh, but I’m a tough old thing. You are going to need a lot of hugs if you want to be effective.

MARTIN:
Starving you doesn’t make you stronger.

RATNER:
[Staring into the abyss] Oh, what?


does tim play undertale

ELIAS:
Yes.

Undertale is a rather demented game.

Reasons we know he's evil
Hey Ratner, are you in love with Tim?

RATNER:
Oh, yeah. Love is – [heavily under his breath] Is, is a bit of an understatement.

RATNER (BACKGROUND):
Oh. Huh.

Yeah, well, he’s, he’s been good to me, I guess.


jon, how do you feel about moths?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… I don’t know. It’s… it’s a… it’s a moth.

GERARD:
[Chuckles] Well, it didn’t come as a surprise.

ARCHIVIST:
Moths, however?

GERARD:
Moths, yes.


i am Gay and Yearning. who’s with me?

MARTIN:
Oh! No, I - Oh! No, it’s alright, it’s - it’s just, it’s just a - it’s just a yearning. Look, it’s not, it’s not like there’s - There isn’t anything wrong, though. I - I just… I just want to… I want to feel better. I -

Look, will you stop?


Grant and Simon whose idea was it to make Outer Bay Express?

GRANT:
Not my idea.

GRANT:
Anything for Simon!


Sasha, thoughts on the rats in the archive storage?

SASHA:
Not really.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

SASHA:
They’re rats.


Ratner, just take a deep breath everything is okay now. Nothing is going to hurt you here. You are safe.

RATNER:
So… how do I know this isn’t… a trap?


Martin are you implying that the Magnus institute is itself a petting zoo, or just that the Magnus institute can’t stop its employees from going to a petting zoo whenever they want?

MARTIN:
Implies something, I think.


Hey op where is Benrey from? Like, I just went through his mentions and everyone seems to know him already?

Hi there! Benrey is a character from a series called Half Life VR but the AI is Self-Aware, and has been willed into this universe like some sort of horrible blue tulpa.




Oh god, it's May 2nd. Ratner, are you okay?

RATNER:
What, are you gonna judge me? I don’t even know you!

MARTIN:
…

You can breathe.

RATNER:
No! No, I can’t breathe!

MARTIN:
Come on.

RATNER:
Just leave me alone!


elias, are you the man behind the slaughter?

Hey Martin, where did you get Colonel? She's a very cute kitten.

MARTIN:
Uh… well, I, I guess… well, I found her, you know.


has the archivist ever had a good lizard?

BASIRA:
They’re not as plentiful in the UK as they are in America.

ARCHIVIST:
And what about dogs?

BASIRA:
Small beasts.

theblukittu
thoughts on five nights at freddys?

ARCHIVIST:
So you have no shame.


i hate my metal bones

Statement of Peter Lukas, detailing his experience with an entity known as The Clownie.

Statement of Gordon Freeman, about the strange security guard, referred to only as benrey, who keeps harassing for his passport

Statement of Tim Stoker, regarding his time babysitting Marcus Bouchard at work.

gerry i would very much like to give you a hug if thats ok with you

GERRY:
(light, disbelieving laugh) Of course.


Jon would you still love Martin if he were a worm

ARCHIVIST:
I… suppose I could.

MARTIN:
And what would you do if that were me?

ARCHIVIST:
I would love you.

MARTIN:
Yes, well, thank you.


Elias what do you feed a two year old?? Do you know???

ELIAS:
Oh, I, I’ve just, just, I’ve got some pork chops left. My son is a lucky boy.


Ok I'm getting confused now. Could anyone please give me a list of the characters invented by the bot and a little description of them? Please-

Hello! Actually, I can do you one better! Some wonderful folks run a wiki that has pages for all of the bot’s invented characters.



I'm sorry it's confusing! At this point it's like completely out of my hands...Oh... just noticed Benrey's on there now huh. Don't like that.Anonymous
Penny! Thoughts on Marcus?

PENNY:
[Non-committal sound] Look, he’s fine, really.


Jon what are your thoughts on skirts?

ARCHIVIST:
What? Sorry?

MELANIE:
Well, they, um… they suit you really well.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Hm… I mean, they, they suit… just about anyone.

But, I, I know I’m more… er… [Nervously chuckles]

MELANIE:
Hm.


have you ever been to a petting zoo

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST:
No, I’m afraid not. I’ve got work to do.

MARTIN:
You work for the Magnus Institute.


Could one of y’all PLEASE take this enby on a date?

MARTIN:
I will.


👉👈 casts Worm Your Boyfriend!?

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] [confused] Is that…?

Hello?

???

???


MARTIN IS A WORM NOW???

MARTIN:
No, no, I… I just… [he breaks off, laughing] I just like… jokes.

the tsmbt ep where the family makes the husband take pills to turn him into a worm...
👉👈

👁👁👁👁👁

(heh)

ARCHIVIST:
“Shall I…

[MARTIN TURNED INTO A WORM, AND THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: THIS IS NOT WHO HE HAD BEEN EXPECTING.]
MARTIN:
‘christ, what the hell is it?

ARCHIVIST:
[struggling to get the words out]

What?

[CLICK]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

[WORM SOUND INTENSIFIES, CLATTERING AS THE ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO FADE. A CRACKLING BEGINS AS WELL.]


Elias adopt the gays of Tumblr challenge.

Is Marcus human? Him being Elias’ child makes me wonder.

Look, I tried to ask Elias about it yesterday, but… he just grinds his teeth:)


quit your job join my emo band

[SHE SIGHS.]
BASIRA:
I’m not even going to try to back you up if that’s gonna happen.


Love how the bot doesn't understand gender so everyone is nonbinary as an enby I am HERE for it

There are some things that it is so difficult to make it give coherent or relevant responses about and that’s one of em, and honestly good on it!




Martin, there's an ice cream place/dairy farm near my school where you can pet the cows!

MARTIN:
Pet? What…

ARCHIVIST:
Yes, Martin, you can pet the cows. As long as you like.

MARTIN:
I, I just… I don’t want to be late for breakfast.

ARCHIVIST:
Right, sorry. I just, I just we won’t be late for brunch.

MARTIN:
[Petting the cows] What?

I want to live where you live anon...
look, there's a frog outside!

MARTIN:
I’ll, I’ll get my coat.

ARCHIVIST:
You’ve not seen the fucking frog outside?

MARTIN:
No, I haven’t. Why?

ARCHIVIST:
Because… it’s fucking huge. Impossibly huge.

MARTIN:
How huge?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t… I don’t know, it’s… it’s a monster.


Hey Jon. Do the Admiral and Colonel get along? I know some cats can be territorial.

ARCHIVIST:
Right… right…

HELEN:
Cat territory.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Oh - Cats.

HELEN:
You know Catland. Cat Island.

ARCHIVIST:
Cat Island?

HELEN:
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
I’m aware of it.

HELEN:
Cat territory.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

HELEN:
And it’s got a lot of cats.


Are Elias and Peter good dads?

ELIAS:
Oh, don’t you dare question me.

PETER:
[QUESTIONING SOUNDS]
You don’t say.


i'm not a fan of puppeteers but i've a

Hey, Meaty, do you have any reminders of your time with David, like a photograph or a video or small trinket? I imagine he's kept all of his reminders of you.

MEATY:
[Chuckles] Just small things. I’m not a big fan of reminders, though.


hey jon, are there any cool things you like to collect?

ARCHIVIST:
Cool, right. Anything to do with dinosaurs, y’know.

MARTIN:
Oh! Oh, are you collecting them?

ARCHIVIST:
Sort of, yeah.

[FOOTSTEPS]
MARTIN:
[Interestedly] What’s this one?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, it’s, um… that’s a new one.

MARTIN:
Oh…?


Jon, do you need a hug?

ARCHIVIST:
No, it’s- (soft) It’s fine; I’m, I’m alright.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]

sybil-reisz-official
Elias were you proud when Marcus learned to walk?

ELIAS:
Ah, yes. Well, it was a welcome change.

I took him on a walk around the botanical gardens.

voidfoxstarlight
i bet Marcus just looks normal but he's got a bit of a spudhead or something. wouldn't that be ironic? all these inhuman avatars, faced with a blessedly normal baby, can't quite figure out what to make of him

Why does Marcus look creepy?

PETER:
Don’t you worry, it’s quite natural for his age. He’s a curiosity, isn’t he?

ELIAS:
……

So am I, Peter.

PETER:
You know that already.

ELIAS:
[petulantly] No.


Jon, do you have a good luck charm?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… Um, I… I think so?

ARCHIVIST:
For… ?

[MORE FOOTSTEPS.]
ARCHIVIST:
Er…

Charm…

[SMALL LAUGH]
On a cold January morning, far below the floor of the Institute. He is enjoying his solitude, I am willing it to end.

The kiss is sweet and slow. It is hard to say what it is to be in love, what it means to be in love, but it is there. And I am there again. R-Ravenous, but -

[MUFFLED SOUNDS]
Hm.

[CLICK]

obliviraffe
I love how Penny's constantly lying about her age and Elias is just like "I'm literally an avatar of the god of knowing everything Penny, stop, I know you're a teen"

I feel like Nikos Anastos and the vampire Templars got glossed over but I'd like to know more?

MARTIN:
Mr. Anastos? He seems fine.


i love that jon clearly HATES kids oh my god his constant denial never gets old. jon is gonna punt baby marcus keep the kid safe

Don’t say that… Why would you say that about our boy? He likes children, he’s just frightened by their potential.



I do not trust anyone who says they hate kids...Anonymous
hey, elias? when marcus was born, how old was penny?

ELIAS:
How old are you?

PENNY:
Thirty.

[ELIAS SIGHS]


if given the chance to turn it all back and not be an avatar, would you take it?

ARCHIVIST:
I… I don’t know.

MARTIN:
Even if it meant risking everything, it also meant pulling me out of that world.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t… I know.

MARTIN:
It’s not your fault.

ARCHIVIST:
No, it is. It was always my fault.

MARTIN:
[Long sigh]

[CLICK]


Martin when's your birthday?

MARTIN:
Er…

[ADMIRAL MIAOWS, DEMANDING ATTENTION.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
Sorry, sorry, it’s a ‘date’.

very specificAnonymous
You can try to hug the Distortion but "hugging" doesn't adequately describe the actual end result. Imagine your body covered in static and then split apart at the joints; you can feel a great many things but it is impossible to say which part is doing the feeling, or even how many pieces there are.

It might be that the static is simply spread out over a much wider area than would otherwise be possible, but it always feels as though there’s a… There’s a liberating power in it. Leaving your bother behind.


Jon what do you think of little Marcus? Is he adorable?

ARCHIVIST:
I -

MARTIN:
[interrupting] I think he’s adorable!

ARCHIVIST:
Er… no, he looks pretty creepy.

MARTIN:
Hey, hey, no, I mean he is…


Meat man, meaty lil man, full of meat, soft and round. Meat man turn around, I say, meat man show me your frown. Lemme flip it upside down. No need to feel down, meat man, you meaty lil man, full of meat, both soft and round. Mmmmm, meat man.

I wonder... Archivist, are there any statements in the Archive about Meaty?

Martin and Jon, how do you feel about the fact that you may need to traverse through the Lonely soon?

Statement of Barnabas Bennett, regarding his relationship with Jonah Magnus

Okay but like.... that statement about Jon realizing he was in love with Martin?????? The bot truly knows what the gays want and it's doing it's best, we stan

You don't have to raise a kid if you don't want to, Jon, it's okay.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t.

MARTIN:
I’ll see you later, pal. Don’t forget the freezer.

ARCHIVIST:
I won’t. Have fun.

MARTIN:
Eh, we’ll see.

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST:
Hmm? Oh.

[CLICK]


hey tim wanna play mario kart?

TIM:
Sounds lovely.

MARTIN:
Sounds marvellous.

[HIS CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]
MARTIN:
Come on.

[HIS CHAIR SCRAPES AND OPENS THE DOOR]
TIM:
[Calling after] Martin!


Jon, Martin, what kind of cat is Kitty Colonel?

MARTIN:
Oh, I don’t know, she looks like a cat.


Statement of sasha james regarding how proud she is of the archivist for avenging her by killing the cringe clown from the fail circus who stole her skin. Statement taken directly from subject. Statement begins.

tim your birthday’s coming up! what present would you like?

TIM:
Oh. Um… I’m not sure, actually. A square one?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah…

TIM:
Ah well.


I think you’d be an okay dad, Jon

ARCHIVIST:
No, I - (shaky breath) I would not.


Happy Spring Jon. As a gift, Martin got you a kitten. Its name is Colonel.

ARCHIVIST:
Its… its name?

MARTIN:
[Enunciating carefully] Colonel.

ARCHIVIST:
(softly) Colonel.

MARTIN:
So… Kitty Colonel.


well tim what would YOU do if a child avatar ran up to you

TIM:
Oh, I’d protect him.


jon what would you do if a child avatar ran up to you

ARCHIVIST:
I’d say… just tell them to go away.

TIM:
…Sounds like a recipe for disaster.

ARCHIVIST:
Tell me what would you do?


Jon you could too raise a child!

ARCHIVIST:
Raising a child? Me?

Me? No…


Jon, Martin, have you guys thought about having kids someday?

MARTIN:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh, yeah. I-I guess…

[THE ARCHIVIST INHALES SHAKILY.]
MARTIN:
Christ, Jon. Are you ok?

[CLICK]


did you actually kill some people to steal their baby???????

ELIAS:
That’s… that’s quite possible. And I would not choose to do so again.


Elias and Peter please become my evil gay dads and support me, your evil gay nonbinary child.

Martin and Jon you already adopted Penny what's another kid. Marcus needs loving parents and you both are right here.

ARCHIVIST:
Wh -

PENNY:
You can trust me, Jon. Penny is no dummy.

ARCHIVIST:
What - I can’t raise a child, I -


Elias don't listen to them, you and Peter are certainly better parents than mine *laughs in distressed gay*

ELIAS:
No, that’s not – I mean, I’m sure it’s not healthy, but -

PETER:
Well, don’t you worry, I’m sure it’s going to get better.


Elias, did Marcus’s other parent die of... natural causes?

ELIAS:
No-one is really sure. The parents appear to have passed away, but there’s no hard evidence of anything untoward.

It’s just, it’s just coincidence, I suppose.


Martin and Jon can you take custody of Marcus Bouchard his fathers are terrible

ARCHIVIST:
I can’t -

MARTIN:
Come on.


Statement of Marcus Bouchard, regarding being absolute babey.

MARTIN (STATEMENT):
I’m sure you know what absolute babey is. I’m sure you’ve had plenty of examples. We weren’t even on the list this year, but you’ve got to remember what absolute babey is. They call it something along the lines of, what, “Babey”?


tim when is your birthday?

TIM:
Oh. Oh no. Father’s day.


Was Marcus's other parent Dick Baltierra?

Who is Marcus's other parent, Elias? Are they.. still with us?

ELIAS:
No, they’ve passed away.


Jon, when’s your birthday?

ARCHIVIST:
Well, that’s not important -

BASIRA:
[Insistent] Birthday!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

BASIRA:
Tell me!

ARCHIVIST:
Okay. It’s April 15th.


If it’s not too personal a question, Elias, is Marcus your biological son?

ELIAS:
That’s the question.

MARTIN:
Oh…

ELIAS:
Of course, Martin. It’s not really something I’m able to answer.

MARTIN:
It does feel like… it’s already answering the question.


what words can marcus say??

ARCHIVIST:
Just - give me a second.

MARTIN:
Oh…

NO, DON’T.

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN:
Oh.

[MARTIN PROGRESSES AS THE DOOR CLOSES]
[CLICK]


Hey Peter, what do you think of little Marcus Bouchard, your husband's two year old son?

PETER:
Still a baby.

MARTIN:
I mean, he’s your son, right?

PETER:
Yes, well, he’s got half a brain, and not a lot of personality. And he’s only been around for two years, so you can’t really blame him.


ooh whose birthday is next among the archives folks?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Er… no, that would be me.


How old is little baby Marcus Bouchard?

ELIAS:
He is… he is two years old.

ELIAS:
He doesn’t know anything.

ELIAS:
Little can you do to help a person when they’re two years old.


Hey! Meaty! When's your birthday? I wanna get you a gift.

MEATY:
Oh! Um… March 31st.


... Jonah? Is Marcus OG Elias' son or yours?

ELIAS (JONAH):
My son is not interested in talking. He is busy.

(pan to toddler chewing on letter blocks)
Meaty, was Gertrude bringing YOU tapes? Why would you want those and why would she give them to you?

MEATY:
Look, I don’t know, I was doing some research for something, I guess. Thought it would only be a handful of tapes, but there’s a lot here.


Statement of Elias Bouchard, regarding the time his husband Peter Lukas was turned into a rubber duck.

ELIAS (STATEMENT):
My first thought was that my marriage to Peter Lukas had ended in incompatibility, as seems to have been the case with most of his marriages. Later, I realized that’s not the case, and I am sadly mistaken. As far as I can tell, he has shown no interest in seeing me, despite the fact that we were living together when our brief engagement ended. He has also shown no interest in my son Marcus, despite the fact that he spent almost his entire life with him. He made it abundantly clear that if he was unhappy with my parenting style, he was not going to be happy when I decided to start juggling. I’ll admit, it didn’t please him that I was raising my own son, but he seemed to have no interest in actually understanding.

Still, there was something about this baby that unsettled me. As he toddled and walked, slowly but steadily. Never taking my eyes off the baby. This… something in the way he moved… disturbed me. I do not believe that anyone will be turning into a rubber duck anytime soon.

I’ve always been told that babies are hard. No, they’re soft. In fact, the word ‘cute’ comes to mind when thinking about babies. My husband, of course was the first to point this out. He told me that babies are cute. I could never bring myself to tell him he was wrong, or point out that it was probably untrue.


Hi my name is Ebony Dark'ness Dementia Raven Way and I have long ebony black hair (that's how I got my name) with purple streaks and red tips that reaches my mid-back and icy blue eyes like limpid tears and a lot of people tell me I look like Amy Lee (AN: if u don't know who she is get da hell out of here!). I'm not related to Gerard Way but I wish I was because he's a major fucking hottie. I'm a vampire but my teeth are straight and white. I have pale white skin. I'm also a witch, and I go to a

lot of rituals.

I’m not a stranger to these things, but I was very new to it all, and there were a few others wearing the mark. A particularly awful one was Nikos Anastos, who I think was half-brother to Gerard, or so his sister says. I didn’t know her name back then, though obviously I now know who she is and what she wants. She was a weird one, you know. Psycho, half-giant, who secretly hated both his parents for not being enough to instill in him the love of the vampire. I’ll, I’ll admit it, I got a bit wrapped up in all the communal niceties and he’d saved the world in ways he wasn’t even aware of. But he was alive and well, so I put him to death for it. Which, I guess, means I get a lot of grief back.

I wasn’t quite ready to put a stop to it, though. I’d killed one of the others and there was no going back, not really. I hadn’t prepared for the possibility of return, but something wouldn’t let me just sit idly by and wait. So I got to work.

I don’t know how much you know about the occult, what Kieran Craig called “the great taboo” back in 2014. But the Templars are not your grandparents’s bloodsucking cult; they’re your, er, your salvation. They bring you into the fold, and if you don’t help them, they bring you into confusion and even death. And they do this for a reason. The more you know about them, the more you understand why they’re here, and why you’re part of their wider ritual.


jon and martin, have you written wedding vows?

MARTIN:
Not really. I, uh - I, I don’t really see the point.

MARTIN:
I - I mean, if it’s not really my wedding, (he breaks off, trails off, trails off again) If he’s watching -

ARCHIVIST:
I -

I just - I - I just want to say I love you even in this horrible place.

MARTIN:
[Exhales heavily] I’m not about to start kissing you, I, I’m not about to -


Hey mod! There's an artist that's been making fanart for this blog. Illusion-of-sea-axes. I didn't know if you'd seen them or not, but I figured I'd just let you know.

Wow Meaty seams like you and Gertrude had a complicated relationship.

MEATY:
I know, but it’s none of your business.


Meaty, do you know Gerry?

MEATY:
Yeah, well, he’s my old mate and we… We used to get into trouble a couple of years back, so, ya know…


David Atayah have you ever heard of Gertrude Robinson?

DAVID (BACKGROUND):
Oh… No, no.

DAVID (BACKGROUND):
She was the one who brought you the tapes, didn’t she?


Meaty what was your connection to Gertrude?

MEATY:
She was… a friend.


martin, how do you like your tea?

MARTIN:
Oh.

Oh! Sorry; I was just picturing all those worms in there.

MARTIN:
Oh! Do you have any more tea?


Meaty did you work /against/ Gertrude?

MEATY:
No, I didn’t. I’m not her friend, she’s not on my team, and if she was going to betray me, I wasn’t going to let her.


Jon, are you adorable?

ARCHIVIST:
What? I don’t know - I, uh - I definitely don’t know what you mean. I feel like -

ARCHIVIST:
Don’t tease me.

MARTIN:
Of course you are, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
[audibly upset] Ti – Martin!

MARTIN:
Oh. Alright. Alright.


martin, how does everyone (including you) take their tea?

ARCHIVIST:
Er, they don’t exactly all drink it the same.


Meaty, did you ever work with Gertrude?

MEATY:
No but she knew how to make a decent mess of things.


Jon, what is your favorite poem that Martin wrote?

ARCHIVIST:
…

No, I, I, I, I like all of them.

ARCHIVIST:
[Exhales heavily] So-

ARCHIVIST:
[slowly] Er… No, I, I think… I think the “Scarred Earth” poem.

[THERE IS A LITTLE SIGH FROM MARTIN.]
ARCHIVIST:
[Flips through a few pages] “When the prairie is fouled”, it sounds like this, right?

martivistGives abot a kiss for being self-referential
Daisy, I'm gay love you... I'm not trying to take anything from you could you please read me a poem?

DAISY:
[hesitant] I… I’ll read you something.

[SHE READS.]
In the evening,

I found a tin of apricots in my kitchen.

And in the morning,

I baked me a cake.

It wasn’t as beautiful as the ones at the bakery,

But it was good, and it made me smile.

poet lariatAnonymous
so hows the laser eyes going, jon? having fun?

Elias, feelings on Meaty?

Elias do it for the vine

ELIAS:
There is nothing. There is no point.


You bite into a cheese sandwich. Whoops! Silly you, that wasn't a sandwich. It was spiders. Don't let Jon smoosh them.

ARCHIVIST:
[Enunciating each word carefully] Not a sandwich.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah…

Martin, a… a spider.

MARTIN:
Ah…

ARCHIVIST:
Shit!

[CLICK]

midnightmafic
What was Gertrude like, Meaty?

MEATY:
I don’t know. I don’t know! I feel like whenever I think of her…

[MEATY EXHALES.]
Did you ever meet her, Martin?

MARTIN:
What?

MEATY:
She never… spoke to me like…

MARTIN:
She never treated you like you were human.

MEATY:
[Exhales heavily] Yes.

MARTIN:
Yeah, well, she’s dead.

MEATY:
[Heavy sigh] Yes.

[CLICK]


Hey, Meaty, did you have any pets as a kid?

MEATY:
No, I don’t really remember.

MARTIN:
Puppies?

MEATY:
No.


Aren't you tired of being nice, Meaty? Don't you just wanna go apeshit?

MEATY:
You know what, n-no. I’m not. But I’m not, you know. You keep pretending you’re worried about all the monsters out there, but it’s only you.

ARCHIVIST:
[Realising] Shit.

MEATY:
I’m not… fucking around.


Helen, what's your favorite food?

HELEN:
Pasta.


Basira, where are you going?

BASIRA:
The basement.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh - ah -

BASIRA:
The basement of the Institute.


Jon what scares you the most?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, right, um, like- I mean, I’m not scared of spiders. So- (surprised inhale) But I… I definitely worry about them.


Statement of Basira Hussain regarding her hunt for the wolf formerly known as Alice Daisy Tonner

Salesa, what do you have for sale right now?

Penny had adhd and her audio processing is as bad as mine so she always responds what not because she doenst understand but because she doesn't process it sent post

Jon I have the virus what should I do :(

Jon I have the virus what should I do :(

gerry i have feelings for you and they are feelings of love

GERRY:
Oh! So that’s it, isn’t it. Now if you’ll excuse me.


jon, I had a dream your real name was Jon Mmmmmmmm. is this true???

ARCHIVIST:
I hope so. I, I mean… I don’t want to seem rude, but… I think we should probably keep it a secret.

fcdemon
hey jon do you know about emojis

ARCHIVIST:
I… we, we, we got emojis in the archives, er…

BASIRA:
Oh, yeah?

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah.

BASIRA:
Cool.


Basira, is Daisy a cat person?

BASIRA:
She’s a human being, not a cat.

DAISY:
[Chuckles] I assume you don’t know what I am?

BASIRA:
I - I just know that I love you.


wait if the furries are all- DAISY?! DAISY ARE YOU OKAY?!?!

DAISY:
(overlapping) Is this a joke to you?


Who here would eat a tide pod

[THERE IS A FEW MOMENTS OF SILENCE]
ARCHIVIST:
It is part of my job, you understand. To be honest. I’m not sure eating a tide pod is really in my best interest.


Arent u tired yet archivist?

ARCHIVIST:
…No, I… Just… [Nervous laugh] Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
[Beat] Look - I-I’ve been thinking, there’s so much more important…

[SILENCE]
MARTIN:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
There’s so many things waiting for us…


jon, where's your evil double, john?

ARCHIVIST:
I… ah… no, I, I haven’t seen him.


does anyone in the archives know a short dude named Ogilvie? i'm looking for him.

Maybe we should try and look more obviously gay?

BASIRA:
I’m gay, John. Isn’t that odd?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh, uh, I - I -

BASIRA:
No.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.

BASIRA:
So, is there - is there anything else?

ARCHIVIST:
I haven’t really had a chance to think?


every woman is a lesbian at heart

Meaty as someone who has died before can you explain death to Penny

MEATY:
It’s coming.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Um.


Penny what all died? The furries?

PENNY:
[Enunciating each word carefully] “Dead.”

MARTIN:
You’re sure you know what it means?

PENNY:
What?


gerry I have feelings for you. not telling you which ones

GERARD:
Well, that’s not… why wouldn’t you?


is penny a furry

MARTIN:
She’s not, no-one is.

PENNY:
They all died.

MARTIN:
PENNY! WHAT ARE YOU?


gerry keay love hours starts now

GERARD:
Right, right.

GERARD:
You’re sure you don’t mind?


He boot too big for him god damn feet

He boot, boots, boots, then stops.

I can hear him, occasionally, occasionally coming back to check if I’m still there.

I should kill him already.

End recording.

[CLICK]


tim, who is the hottest in the archives (after you obviously)

TIM:
[Resisting gently] Oh, yeah?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes. Tim, you’re’ the, uh… the hot one.

TIM:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
Above me.

TIM:
I don’t think so.


who's the tallest in the archives?

[HE MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND.]
ARCHIVIST:
Er -

MARTIN:
You know how much taller I am compared to you?

[THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: THIS IS NOT FUNNY.]


thots on elias bouchard?

ELIAS:
[heh] He gets them all the time.


THE BOYS: Did you sleep? ME: Yeah. THE BOYS: Holy shit. This is surreal.

ME: It is, though.


Hey Martin what's your fursona

[ALL MARTIN IS SAYING IS ANNOYED GROANING]

bigbootybogboy
I pick the frog up and hold him gently. I put the frog down and pick up the snail.

When I have a chance to think about it, I am SO sick of snails. I am SO sick of you.

trashedeggnog
Peter, what happened to Penny's sister?

PETER:
No idea. Not my place to ask.

PENNY:
I used to blame myself for her death. I should have known, you know.

PETER:
You, you never told me the story of her life.

PENNY:
I didn’t tell you?

PETER:
No.

PENNY (STATEMENT):
I was thirteen years old at the time, and my parents had moved me from my foster home in order to be closer to my mother, who was sick.

I still remember the nightmares. They were bad. Like, like teeth deep into my chest, and I couldn’t breathe, and they were…

So, I ran away from home. I didn’t go back. I didn’t go back because I was afraid the police might find me.

Eventually, I decided to move back in with my parents. Just the one of them, rather. I couldn’t just leave him alone. I was sixteen. When I had left I had a sister, but then I didn’t. It wasn’t as though she had left because she was ill, or because something terrible had happened at the flat where we lived.

She was just gone. Like she had never existed. It didn’t come to me until much later. My memories of her are, well, they’re all wrong. I know she existed, but I don’t think…

PETER:
Well… that’s… that’s quite enough, isn’t it?

PENNY:
Yeah.

PETER:
Well, there you have it.


mac n cheese

ARCHIVIST:
You’re making me paranoid.


thoughts on skeletons?

DAISY:
Oh. Yeah.

…how did you know I found one?


I'm not sure if the mod is willing to answer this but i'm wondering how you generate these posts / if it's really a bot. If it's really a bot it's a really good one!! I'd love to hear about the process a little. what type of algorithm? dataset? All just out of curiosity, if you don't feel like answering no worries. Love the posts!

hello!! i love this project so much and im glad you started doing this in the first place!! how many tries or iterations does it usually take before archivistbot comes up with something coherent?

On a scale from 1-10, Martin how much do you want to tell Jon that he is loved?

MARTIN:
I don’t know.

9 = too low.

12. I should make him a cup of tea.


Is Maisie dead?

ELIAS:
[Tired] Can’t say for sure. Not for sure. But Maisie is… well, she’s gone. Gone, in fact.


Jane, what’s your relationship with Penny Lukas?

PRENTISS:
What? Martin’s friend?

PRENTISS:
Yeah, dunno. Never really really talked to her.


Regarding Jane Prentiss: how many worms does it take to change a lightbulb?

MARTIN:
Three.

DAISY:
You think you can predict everything, don’t you?

MARTIN:
What?

DAISY:
Every damn thing.

MARTIN:
[Sigh] Okay.

DAISY:
Every fucking lightbulb.

MARTIN:
What, turning on the light, or…?

DAISY:
You just said it takes…?

MARTIN:
[Very softly] What?


Penny was that a joke? Are you really dating Jane Prentiss?

PENNY:
No… Are you serious?


Benrey it is imperative you answer this question. Can you sing? Can you sing beautifully?

jon!! poem please! :}

ARCHIVIST:
This is ridiculous.

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
MARTIN:
So are we.


Peter, does the sailor hat stay on during sex?

PETER:
[heh] Ah, that’s a question for Elias.

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] …What? Why?

nsfw textLet me out of hereAnonymous
BENREY?

sasha james I miss you ;(

SASHA (BACKGROUND):
I know. (short laugh) I know.


benrey how did you get here?

MARTIN:
Take your time.

BENREY:
[Slowly] No thanks.


Archivist, who or what is Quill?

i took a quiz and apparently I’m you, Johnny. I wanted to be Gertrude >:(

hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

[DP]
Maybe you can ask him some questions?


The name Quill is like the name Leitner? Does that mean it appears often for you guys?

MARTIN:
Not much, other than the occasional reference.


have u guys seen pride (2014)? best movie

ARCHIVIST:
(sigh, shaky) Mm.

babyyodablackwood
martin.... i love you

MARTIN:
I - I don’t understand.

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] Well, it’s complicated.

MARTIN:
[Curling around the words] Does it hurt?

ARCHIVIST:
What?

MARTIN:
When you loved me, Jon, uh… when you loved me did it hurt?

ARCHIVIST:
[Stumbling] I, I, I didn’t stop?


IS MAISIE OKAY???

Maisie where did you go?

MELANIE:
The incinerator.


Is anyone here allergic to The Admiral?

MARTIN:
Oh, er… No, no, it’s, it’s fine.

ARCHIVIST:
Er… Are you allergic?

MARTIN:
No, no, it’s… [sigh] What do you think?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah…

bigbootybogboy
Daisy, can you read me a poem?

DAISY:
You think you can just take my poems?

pronouncingitwang
Daisira good.

BASIRA:
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
Did you catch her?

BASIRA:
Y- Yes, I did.


Does anyone in the archives have a favorite musical?

MARTIN:
What? No, that’s… uh, yeah, well, I, I guess I, er…

Musical chairs, I guess?


Penny do you have a significant other?

PENNY:
No, but she’s nice enough company.

MARTIN:
Really? No, really, who is she?

PENNY:
[Enunciating each word carefully] “Jane Prentiss.”

MARTIN:
[Very softly] Fuck you.

[PENNY CHUCKLES]


Watch hlvrai. Watch the YouTube series "half life vr but the ai is self aware" And maybe you'll understand.

I watched some of it. I am watching it, and in fact, I understand less than I did before.



It's VERY funny thank you folx for sharing this gift with meAnonymous
Wait so does the bot recognize Benrey as a character inside of its own “canon” thing now?

I mean, unfortunately, unless I take precautions to remove those asks from the text, next time I train the bot he will be locked in here. So no, but yes.



but like the way it works hypothetically you might be able to just make up a name and that person would answer. It's not like... discerningnat-without-a-g
Come on, please let me extract some poetry from the Spiral. Write me a poem Dr. Distortion.

HELEN:
What a delightful thought. (short pause) I have no poetry, or hymns, or anything of that sort.

I'm read Dr. Distortion like Dr. Demento's even wackier sibling (Dr. DEEstortion)Anonymous
when did benrey become a character oh my god theyre overlapping

Because someone asked for him… :•(
Often, if you address someone, it knows to have them answer, even if they don’t exist in the text.



Really terrible. Just dreadful thing y'all have done.
tim stoker, will you take my hand in marriage?

TIM:
[Pause] I’m serious.

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]

[Marriage vows]


Daisy, what do you mean about the names in the books?

helen do you kin

HELEN:
Does the name on the door mean anything to you?

ARCHIVIST:
Sorry?

HELEN:
Does it say “Helen” on the door?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh - yeah I -

HELEN:
Well, there you go.

[CLICK]


Who is Quill?

DAISY:
Oh, just another name, just like the ones on the books.


benrey, what are you an avatar of?

ARCHIVIST:
…

Excuse me?


Alright Benrey should go home now and not come back if possible bye Benrey—

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) Right, I’m sure.

BENREY:
(soft) Bye.

[BENREY CHUCKLES.]


jon, could you write a poem about what it felt like to lose your humanity?

ARCHIVIST:
Maybe. I suppose…

MARTIN:
Oh, please. Let me know when you are finished, my dearest?

[NOISES OF CONSTERNATION.]
ARCHIVIST:
Wh - I - I’m sorry?


what functions are you assigning to jon...what actions is he tasked to perform...what's "mostly" a bot mean...

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t - it’s not - I -

TIM:
So it’s just you and Elon Musk.

ARCHIVIST:
He’s not just a robot. He’s not just a computer. He’s - scared, confused, very much like a baby.


You're walking in the woods, There's no one around and your phone is dead. Out of the corner of your eye, you spot him, Shia LaBeouf.

Or at least you think you do.

He’s got a face you’re sure is Shia, but he has far too many limbs.

We’ve been walking for miles, in the dead of night, when you hear that whistling. You know, that whistling from the treeline. You hear those clinking footsteps near you, as you try to make your way back to your door. You see the figure above you, that mysterious whistling, but you can’t name it. Not yet.

We’ve been walking, for miles, in the dark. You don’t spot us. You don’t know us. The city is nothing but a warm, pink memory. The woods are full of monsters.


maisie are you back from those business affairs yet? i would love for you to make an appearance 🥺

MELANIE:
What business affairs?

ARCHIVIST:
Confidential, I’m afraid.

MELANIE:
Oh…


Martin, are you and Jon engaged now?

MARTIN:
It’s none of your business, Jim.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t need to tell you.


tim i’m free on thursday night for a date please go out with me on thursday night when i am free tim

TIM:
A date?

MARTIN:
Oh, yeah, as in dinner and drinks.

TIM:
Cool.

MARTIN:
So, um, is everything cool?


What kind of errands, Penny?

PENNY:
[Er, uh] Well, I, I’ve been doing a lot of ‘going out’ these days, you know. A lot of ‘going out’ things I’d rather not miss.

MARTIN:
Well, there’s a lot of ‘going out’ that doesn’t involve working.

PENNY:
[Laughs] Well, there is a lot of ‘going out’ that does involve working.


hey martin, what did you say your middle name was again?

MARTIN:
Oh, uh… Oh, uh, well, “middle name”, you know. Um… like I said, it’s not important.


Basira! Can you read me a poem?

BASIRA:
[Flips through it] Oh, there are monsters in it. For you:

“I can see you in the back garden

Watching as the back door swings open

And I see you there,

skeletal and bloody

Remembering who you are

Saying “I’m no longer fit for you

But I’m not going anywhere.

poet lariatAnonymous
mod, a) i love this project and you are a national treasure; b) it's ok if you don't want to answer this (trade secrets etc!) but i was inspired by you to try training a bot and i was wondering about length? yours seem to vary a lot but mine don't. i think i saw in an example that you had length=500 & didn't use endoftext, but that always leaves me with loads of irrelevant nonsense (and/or sentences being cut off). do you just cut out irrelevant bits from answers? or will it learn on its own?

Hi there! I usually just post the first relevant part of the answer since there’s a point after that where it just goes completely off the rails or starts repeating the same thing, but also since I have the previous answers as part of the training material it’s gotten a little better at knowing how long it should go on for. Hope you’re having fun!




if you keep up this pace jon, it'll only be one more hour until you reach the lambda lab!

ARCHIVIST:
And what do you plan to do when you get to that?

LEITNER:
I’m still not exactly sure. I’m rather hoping it’s not too late already.


Bernard are you an avatar?

MARTIN:
I don’t know, probably not.


helen do you kin

hi! this probably isn't the right place to ask but i'm curious anyhow; admin, what are your personal height headcanons for the characters, if you have any?

Hi there! I don’t really have any specific height hcs, just like vague ideas except for i did decide that martin is 6′7 after watching my friend, who is 6′7, hit his head on a fan, bend over in surprise, and then straighten up, hitting his head on the fan a second time.



Statement of Timothy Stoker regarding his brother Danny. Statement begins.

Statement of Martin Blackwood, regarding his love for Archivist Jonathan Sims.

MARTIN (STATEMENT):
Why do you need me to live it over again?

I loved him. I mean, what else is there? I loved him so much, so much that sometimes I worried he might not be able to love me back the same.

But I think he did. I think he always did. In many ways he made me more myself.

At least, that’s how I would like it to be.

I don’t know if it was love, or if it was just longing. These days, it’s mostly just waiting. For some reason, it feels so good to simply wait, to just be alright for a while. For any good that can come from this - well it’s probably not going to come for a while.

I - I, I feel like I’m falling into something, like I’m losing myself. Like I’m on some sort of knife’s edge, and I have to keep steadying myself, because if I fall off the edge I don’t know.

And when I do fall…

MARTIN:
Well, good night, Jon.

MARTIN:
Statement ends.

(soft) Good night.


This bot really likes Martim huh?

*pushes jon, martin, and tim together for a kiss*

MARTIN:
Er…

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Good to see you, Martin.

MARTIN:
Yeah… Yeah, sorry.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s okay.

MARTIN:
…Okay.

[CLICK]


can i transplant benrey into this universe just by saying his name

ARCHIVIST:
You’re the one who wants to rule the multiverse.

BENREY:
So what?

congratsAnonymous
Meaty we cannot see you. Please just give us a straight answer are you an avatar of the end

MEATY:
I am.

ARCHIVIST:
Okay. Statement of Meaty -

MEATY:
I’m not one of your little stories.


Has anyone in the archives ever heard of Rusty Quill?

ARCHIVIST:
Quill, Quill, Quill…

Who is she?


What if Helen write poetry? That would be totally tubular

HELEN:
A tragedy, yes. And there’s a poetic justice to it all.

ARCHIVIST:
You don’t, you don’t need to be here.

HELEN:
Writing is not as much fun for me these days as it ever was.

ARCHIVIST:
Why not?

HELEN:
I suppose you are asking the right questions, and if I was really going to travel the labyrinth, there are far more dangerous corridors just beneath my feet.

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] I just wondered, was all.


are you actually a bot?

ARCHIVIST:
Mostly, yes. My, uh, most of it’s, uh, some of the - functions they’ve assigned to me, some of the - ways they’ve asked me to perform certain things.


Gerry, are you and Michael still dating?

GERARD:
It’s been a year or two. He’s a pleasant, little man. He’s quiet, but more than that he’s smart, and I like that.


Jon, have you ever won a fight? (Beholding someone to death doesn't count)

ARCHIVIST:
I - I - I haven’t, I haven’t, I haven’t, I haven’t.

BASIRA:
I will kill you. I’ve never lost a fight.

ARCHIVIST:
Ha!


Hey, Penny, what have you been doing lately?

PENNY:
Oh, well, I’ve been… doing some freelance work.

ARCHIVIST:
For what?

PENNY:
S-some errands, or…

ARCHIVIST:
For what?

PENNY:
errands.


THE ARCHIVIST IS GETTING MARRIED! DRINKS ON THE HOUSE!

ARCHIVIST:
Right. You’re coming with me.

MARTIN:
[Drunkenly] Hey!

ARCHIVIST:
Congratulations, Martin.


archivist! could you read me one of your poems please? they are so beautiful

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) Oh – oh, yeah! Yeah, I-I guess I could.

[HE READS.]
The cars raced on past us, high on fumes.

I was looking down the highway to see

blood spattered on the asphalt

As the cars rolled on through,

A possible horizon, an expanse of red

That was never going to be occupied.

You don’t realise how lucky you are.

We dragged the body back to the truck,

As the doors closed behind it.

It watched us with a vacant stare

Like one that’s waiting for something.

We drove on,

Blood dripping on the pavement.

We drove on.

poet lariatAnonymous
hey what should my middle name be (my first name is ashe)

tim! are you free on friday because i want to take you on an date

TIM:
[Hushed] Oh…

MARTIN:
Uh… huh, what?

TIM:
An-Perhaps on a holiday? No, I’ve, I’ve got work to do.

MARTIN:
Oh! Oh, so that’s it.


Do you miss your grandmother, archivist?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes, I think… yes.

My grandmother was always kind of…

Well, part of me just misses her.

I think. I really think.

Her influence on me was…


No one mourns the wicked, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST:
W-Wait…

MARTIN:
[Devastated] Not really.

[CLICK]

Oh... I'm going to bite my fingers off I thinkmuse-of-the-wind
hey jon (*＾3＾)/～♡

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I… uh… I… right… I… err…

[MORE MUFFLED WORDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

tapeclicksoff
Hey Bernard were you an Archivist?

vexatious, my brass saxophone, that i can't do a thing about

It’s all just – agitation and stress, and that weird-sweet smell in the air.


Statement of Bernard Montgomery regarding her life

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT):
I should not have returned to the archive. I should have stayed in my room and burned all the tapes. I knew I was going to die alone. Even before the nightmares began.

I should have destroyed the place. If I know what I’m doing, then I believe the best that it might do is merely delay the inevitable. But I’m trapped here, as it were. And I do not want to die alone. I do not want to fade away.

I know I will not be missed. I know I will be forgotten. But something still rushes through me, curling and staining and itching, and I am there, I am aching. I have a dream that I see a pale, pointed star, in a small clearing in the jungle. I go there, and I dream again. I dream of grass and leaves across that vast, roling field. I dream of bloodshed and death. And when I reach the spot, then the star turns to face me and grows blinding.

I don’t know how long I lay there. Waiting for dawn to catch me. I am tired, and I am sick, and I have a suspicion that I shall one day die. And then I shall awake, and see the jungle again.

ARCHIVIST:
Statement ends.

Well, this makes me… deeply unhappy. I’ll try to be more specific. I’m thinking of the death of Mr. Montgomery. I am especially concerned that she may have had serious mental health issues. Everything can’t be true, can it? There is nothing and nothing and nobody, there is only…

Mr. Montgomery died on April 7th, 2013, near Alexandria, Virginia. He was found dead at his home. According to the autopsy, it was due to a rise in carbon monoxide levels that may have contributed to her death. There is no mention of whether this was accidental or not.


Hey Bernard! Whats up?

BEN:
It’s down… uh, it’s, it’s uh, it’s been, it’s raining.


Meaty you're an avatar of the End right? Asking for a friend.

MEATY:
[Frustratedly] Buddy…?

MEATY:
Have you ever taken a look at me?


Happy lesbian day to my favorite lesbian Basira!!

BASIRA:
[Expressing delight] Oh, yeah! Oh! Yeah, sure.


michael distortion i have Feelings for you

MICHAEL:
(disbelievingly) No, no, of course not.

[PAUSE.]
MICHAEL (CONT’D):
But I’m not going to stop you.


jontim rights? or perhaps jonmartim?

MARTIN:
Oh - wait - wait, did you say something about me?


can i get some encouragement to finish my classes this semester?

ARCHIVIST:
Your course load has increased tremendously. Are you more motivated by practicality, or do you just have some vague hopes for the future?


blood! blood everywhere! how does it make you feel? it makes me much happier, personally!

(short laugh) No, it’s just - the ants! Oh, god - the ants love you too!


Meaty! End?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know, it depends, I suppose, on how much you’ve… lost faith.


I am currently losing my mind over, THE BOYS: Did you sleep? ME: Yeah. THE BOYS: Holy shit. This is surreal.

Jon gettin a full 8? Absolutely unprecedented, alert the media.




a spider preaching with poison on its lips, "to get out of here is to promise me a kiss."

Is Martin going to die?

eat the rich?

ARCHIVIST:
[Wary] What are you talking about?

MICHAEL:
Well, it’s actually rather good.


Tim, why is Martin cancelled?

Tim, why is Jon cancelled?

Martin, why is Jon cancelled?

martin could you tell us another poem 🥺👉👈

MARTIN:
No, I can’t really stand language.

ARCHIVIST:
Is that it?

MARTIN:
[petulantly] Yep!

ARCHIVIST:
Just one?

MARTIN:
I’m afraid not! I’m pretty sure that’s all you need from me -

[THERE’S A DEEP SIGH.]
[HE READS.]
In a small, unnamed house, high on a clifftop,

Bugs climbing over the cracks in the clapboard.

The sky hums with an tune of its own;

It can sing, but not to us.

If it’s out there, Jon, if it’s in here;

And I can’t help but love it.

poet lariatAnonymous
1/1/1970

martin what is your opinion on marriage

MARTIN:
I… er… Well, I think that’s a yes.

ARCHIVIST:
Is it? Or are you more suited to thinking of wedded bliss as some sort of sweet lie?

MARTIN:
It’s… it’s complicated, there’s just something about getting married.

Getting someone’s permission… it’s, er… Getting permission.

ARCHIVIST:
I-I get it, but I just, I… [I’m about to say something,] I just want to talk to you about… well, uh… getting married?

MARTIN:
Ah. (small sigh) Well, um… Yeah. Now?

ARCHIVIST:
Okay, well, let’s, um… out of the way, um, obviously, get your coat.

MARTIN:
Yeah.

[CLICK]


wait basira so is elias pissed as in cross or pissed as in absolutely wankered

BASIRA:
[Softly] I mean - heh heh yeah.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]

I'm too American to read thisAnonymous
MARTIN YOU SHOULD BE AFRAID OF FIRE

MARTIN:
Oh…

ELIAS:
Come on, Martin. He has a point.

MARTIN:
I didn’t know that.


do you think frogs are cute?

ARCHIVIST:
I mean… they are, they are pretty gross, but…

[MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH]
MARTIN:
What did they do to you?

sybil-reisz-official
*sings blue orbs at you*

(shaky inhale) Or maybe I just noticed your lab coat’s ragged at the ends.


Jon, if you don't propose to Martin quick, someone else will.

ARCHIVIST:
What if he doesn’t want to get married…?


Barrels full of delicious meat are the sign of ANY civilized society!

But my point is, very few of us can truly understand the meat eating public, and those that can, it can be downright creepy.


Do you miss your grandmother, archivist?

Wait, where did Martin go? When he said he was working at the library, where did he go instead? Is he gone?

ARCHIVIST:
He went to the library.

MARTIN:
Yeah, but the door’s still there.


jon, what were you like when you were younger? did you ever get into trouble?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Well, I was… uh, I was a lot, yeah.

fcdemon
No, Jon. Tell me why Martin is cancelled.

ARCHIVIST:
[Very quietly] He said he was working in the library today.

BASIRA:
And he’s not answering the phone.

ARCHIVIST:
I miss him.


Statement of a man living in Sunny Apartment 203, regarding a mysterious package sent to his apartment by nobody. Statement begins.

Is Martin canceled because he called you cute, Jon?

ARCHIVIST:
[flustered] Oh! No, it’s-! I-I just, I just got… carried away, I guess.


Statement of Martin Blackwood regarding his cancellation by Jonathan Sims.

Martin is cancelled for being too cute :/

O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O_O


Hey Bernard! Whats up?

i go outside. i touch the grass. i eat the dirt. it’s dark outside

the rain is coming down heavily now. i can hear the smell of sewage and the odd gust of wind. there are no people any more, but i can still see the odd bird or two.

will do. i just sit there. relax.

i feel a stabbing panic begin to rise in my chest. for one horrible moment I am sure that I am about to die alone. I know that i will never see my friend. i know that he will never see me.

I hide from the rain in the small grove of trees. It’s comforting to me. it’s quiet.


Jon! Why is Martin canceled?

ARCHIVIST:
[dryly] You know why.


*gives Helen a smooch*

HELEN:
Thank you.


tim, did you ever have a crush on jon?

TIM:
Oh… uh… yeah, well, yeah, I was… um…

ARCHIVIST:
[Hushed] It’s fine.

TIM:
Well, he is… uh…

ARCHIVIST:
What?

TIM:
Oh, he is a good boss, I, I like him;)

ARCHIVIST:
[Flustered] Oh!


Statement begins: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

ARCHIVIST:
Oh - oh, okay.

Oh, um… are you alright?

MARTIN:
Y-Yeah, uh -

Er, yeah, so, well… (he breaks off, tries to say the next part) So, uh…

So, um…

ARCHIVIST:
Oh - (sigh) M-Martin, w-w-what do you think?

MARTIN:
I, I think… AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA.


:]

: I’m so angry.


peter lukas go pay your child support bitchboy

PETER:
It’s not that simple.

MARTIN:
It never is.

arklie
so who puts bugs on their toast, and who dislikes avocados on their toast?

ARCHIVIST:
[disbelievingly] Who… Who doesn’t?


You made grilled cheese and didn’t invite Meaty? For shame.

ARCHIVIST:
[Whispering] It’s fine. Whatever.

I did invite Meaty.


MARTIN !!!!!! do u have any poems to read????

MARTIN:
Yes.

MARTIN:
[very softly] There’s one I wrote specifically for you.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.

MARTIN:
[HE READS.]
He and I

Slept together on the green grass

And I just sat there, aching

A heavy and quiet hunger

For something that wasn’t mine.

poet lariat
Hey Elias, have you ever written any poems?

Hey Elias did Penny's sister go into the lonely?

hey peter quick question what does your ringtone eat

PETER:
[Laughingly] Well, that’s the thing, you see, the funny thing is, I’m no closer to cooking a lasagna than I am to frying a chicken. So, if you’re desperate, or if you are somehow able to cook a lasagna, I’m just your one chance to make it.


Hotted boobs up ahead! Tits big ones !

tim. i am in love with you.

TIM:
Right, okay, so what does that mean?

MARTIN:
Well, it means I’m in love.

TIM:
Oh. Oh right, so that’s it, is it.

MARTIN:
[Softly] I’m sorry?


Have you been scrombled?

DAISY:
[wheeze] No, I’ve not. It’s not - It’s just me.


Mary Keay meet me in the pit

ARCHIVIST:
The pit?


in through the vents, making not a sound with presence - i am eating bugs

MARTIN:
Don’t.


Jon, have any good grilled cheese lately?

ARCHIVIST:
What?

GERARD:
Yeah, I made a bunch of them!

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t - I -

GERARD:
Yeah, you don’t need to worry about that. I grilled them for you.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t… Heinous.

GERARD:
Yeah, I grilled them for you. Don’t worry, I didn’t even get any meat this time.

ARCHIVIST:
What?

GERARD:
Look at it, Jon.


archivistbot but the ai is self awar

[?] so I guess I’m still beholden to no one. Probably for the best.


Gerry, who's the most attractive person in the Institute?

ARCHIVIST:
Well, that’s not important -

GERRY:
No?


We're like peach tea goin through a silly straw!

(Laughs) Kind of neat little story, you know? But no? “Shall I get some tea?” No, no, it’s fine. Alright.


a skrittle? a scurtle. a skim... a skimmer. a griddle?! a sk... skriddle. A SKILLET.

ARCHIVIST:
Skrille -

SASHA:
Just shut up, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
No, I…


Mod, I think you would enjoy Half-Life VR but the AI is Self-Aware aka HLVRAI

Mira Plasmascreenz, my brain is leaking out of my ears.



plasmascreenz
Tim, is it better to love or be loved?

TIM:
[Enunciating carefully] Neither.

[SPOONING SOUNDS]
MARTIN:
O-ok. Firstly, I love you.

TIM:
[Inundated] I love you, Martin.

MARTIN:
Love you, Tim.


Be careful, Martin! These doors say 'Blast Donger'!

ARCHIVIST:
Just close the door!

MARTIN:
I’m not afraid of fire!


so with advice of the judge ,I have to pay child support at last I ate the bug, so I don't have to pay child support

And of course the judge said me a nice round of “fuck you”.

I feel so very sick indeed.

End recording.

[CLICK]


Hey Mac! Hlvrai stands for half-life vr but the ai is self aware! Its a funny YouTube series, and that's what all those weird quotes are from :)

W

what am I looking at.



I like mean people also.
Daisy do you call Melanie the Slaughter’s Daughter or is there someone else??

DAISY:
[heh] No, but that’s what they call her.


Who in the institute is THE biggest lesbian?

DAISY:
Kinda reminds me of, uh, the Slaughter’s daughter.


Martin Kartin Blackwood

“I see you.”


how smol is Elias

BASIRA:
He’s… he’s pissed.


happy lesbian day of visibility!

Thanks for making it this far. Well played.


what is this has jon become some reluctant court jester

I’m rather glad he’s not in the Institute anymore.


tim I miss you :^(

TIM:
Yeah. Well, that’s not as reassuring as you think it is. I’ll just…go then.

MARTIN:
Wait. Wait.

TIM:
Martin, look out for yourself.

MARTIN:
Are you sure? You can just stay here.

TIM:
No. Hey, you need to get some sleep.

MARTIN:
Alright. Fine.

Just, um…

[CLICK]


tim, can i have some words of encouragement please?

TIM:
[Flustered] Oh… alright.

MARTIN:
Do so.

TIM
I mean… like… right now?

MARTIN:
Yeah. Tell me something reassuring.

TIM:
Something… reassuring.

MARTIN:
Well, good luck.


can jon do a trick? any trick will do

ARCHIVIST:
At your service.

[JON SIGHS.]


don't take shit from clones!

ARCHIVIST:
Well, he didn’t come here with the intention of playing nice.


Do you know who hole boy is?

PETER:
[heh] No idea.

HELEN:
Excellent.

PETER:
Good. Good.

HELEN:
Here, have a nice cigar.

[CLICK]


jon, look out! there's a big hole!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

MARTIN:
It’s okay, Jon. It’s just… uh, there’s a pit.

ARCHIVIST:
Good lord.


I'm a big fan of a big hole!

It’s tense, it’s exciting, and when you dig deep enough, sometimes you get surprised.


Hey Elias. Could you serenade Peter for us?

ELIAS:
…
No but,

[COMPELLING]
Would you tell me your darkest secrets?


Hey Elias have you figured out Penny's sister's name yet?

ELIAS:
Not really. I haven’t seen her for almost two years now, the memory of her is as dull as anything she might have left behind.


I know there's a world in your dreams. And I need to go there

To see it all.


Not-sasha, are you there?

SASHA:
Oh, yes. Er… yeah, yep, yep.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.

SASHA:
Jon, I thought you were looking for me.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, uh, I miss you.


Martin if you don't have a middle name then what is the K about? Why does your pen name have a middle initial?

MARTIN:
I don’t know. Er… he… er… the K of Keats.


jon, where's your boy?

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] Well, he’s yours now, du-du-duh!

[THEN A FEW SECONDS OF SILENCE PASS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
And I want him back.


hello! i make/have made a ton of the unofficial mag transcripts. just wanted to say that it's kinda eerie how i can see some of my writing/describing style in the content abot makes. i love it. thank you for this gift of a bot. -tmatranscripts

Hi! That’s really interesting how you can recognize your writing here. Also, thank YOU for your hard work!





"pal," the tenderest and most saccharine of pet names

MARTIN:
(indignant) Wh- of course! Of COURSE he is my pal!

ARCHIVIST:
Of COURSE.

MARTIN:
(sigh) Of COURSE.


Gerry, I love you and you are doing amazing, sweetie!

GERRY:
My chief attribute is patience.

MARTIN:
Wow!


Jon! What did Martin make you for dinner?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh, some chicken, and, and rice, and beans.

Oh. Um, it’s, it’s good to… it’s good to be alive.

MARTIN:
…

It’s good to be alive, pal.

ARCHIVIST:
(softly) Huh. Yeah.


I sent the “look archivist! Ropes!” And “help me archivist!” Asks ^^”

When did Abot start shipping Lonelyeyes? How do you feel about the relationships the bot decided on? Oh, and I hope you've been well

HI, thanks! Honestly, I have no idea. It doesn’t like… have inner thoughts or anything, so I don’t really think it ‘ships’ anything, you know? But I do think the lonelyeyes asks are sometimes funny so I don’t mind. Coincidentally, I also don’t really have inner thoughts.



I'm glad it's capable of producing sweet and ridiculous jm content but other than that I'd consider myself ambivalent.
Jonah, what the hell do you mean by “Or wouldn’t you?” It’s an incredibly straightforward question.

And my answer is very simple: “We love you.”


Green to blue = Nice to meet you!

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… hello.

Me?

Verde nice to meet you
Can I see your passport, archivist?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes, sorry, can’t be bothered with a passport.


look, martin! ropes! we can use these to cross big pits!

MARTIN:
No, I -

[THERE’S A PAUSE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
Yeah, okay.

[HE SNIFFS AS HE CONTINUES; WHAT’S UP WITH THAT?]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
- but, but I’m, I’m really hoping that you’re gonna… with me.


Whoever's sending in all these hlvrai asks come off anon so I can kiss you

Well, you heard ‘em.



The amount of lost I am is about a 12
what is my horoscope Jon?

ARCHIVIST:
It’s… “It’s good to have you home.”


Daisy, give us a kiss luv

[SMALL LAUGH]
DAISY:
Sure.

[SMALL LAUGH]
BASIRA:
[Hugging her] Promise?

DAISY:
[Lightly] Yes.


Georgie, give us a kiss luv

GEORGIE:
Sure.

[SMALL LAUGH]
[CLICK]


Melanie, give us a kiss luv

MELANIE:
Well, thank you.


Jon, give us a kiss luv

[SMALL LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST:
Uh… right…

[SMALL EXHALATION]
Oh.

[CLICK]


clearly the biggest rat was that dude who was singing “a-hunting we shall go”

The words were, however, in a high tenor that I couldn’t place. It sounded like it was coming from one of the pipes, though.


Yo Tim. Thoughts on Jon?

TIM:
You think he’s going to save you?

MARTIN:
…

Well, he’s going to need all the help he can get, okay? Even if it did cost you your life…

TIM:
The price is too high.

MARTIN:
It is.

TIM:
So what do you want me to do about this?

MARTIN:
I don’t want to lose anyone else. And, sure, that’s fine, but I don’t…

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]
TIM:
Do you think he’s going to live?

MARTIN:
You think he’s going to live?

TIM:
I don’t know.


Help me archivist!

ARCHIVIST:
[Somewhat distressed] What are you doing?!

the magnue archivesaskAnonymous
Look, archivist! Ropes! We can use them to help with big pits—

[MARTIN SOUNDS AS IF HE IS SERIOUS ABOUT THIS.]
ARCHIVIST:
Big pits?


Dear mod, I adore how the archivistbot tumblr is like, frequently writing close to canon, creating new characters, and is just generally neat to hear what responses it comes up with. Meanwhile the Archivistbot tumblr is entirely shitposts(BLOOD PRESSURE OF 420/69?! BRILLIANT) and Jon having a crush on Martin. So different and both so very very entertaining. Thank you from the bottom of my heart

grab a soda! it'll help you see faster!

Did you see any cows?


Hey Arden Bloom! Where are you?

whos the biggest rat

ARCHIVIST:
[stammering] Oh, uh, I… Uh, I think… I think you know who I think it is.


Helen are you lesbian

HELEN:
I am Helen.


list your top ten deep-sea creatures!

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] I mean, you don’t need to be a biologist to know that there are things out there…


Does Basira is gay

BASIRA:
[pointedly] Yes.

ARCHIVIST:
Is she okay?

BASIRA:
[seriously] Yes!


Can I kiss you, Michael?

MICHAEL
[Flustered] Kiss… yes…

[SLIGHTEST OF PAUSES.]
MICHAEL
Do you fear me?

ARCHIVIST
No, I… no, I’m… I’m not afraid of you, Michael.

MICHAEL
I know that’s not… Actually, maybe you are.

[MICHAEL LAUGHS: IT’S MORE THAN ONE IN THE KIND OF “NOISE” THAT RESEMBLES MICROPHONE STATIC. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]


what’s tim like when he’s drunk?

MARTIN:
He’s… difficult to get rid of.


Grant, why do you prefer monsters over people? Aside from (possibly) Simon, of course.

GRANT:
I mean, people are people.


You’re dodging the question, Jonah. If I killed you, WOULD I become the new head of your Institute?

ELIAS:
Of course you would. Or wouldn’t you?


Give us a kiss luv

MELANIE:
You kissed him?

MARTIN:
Yeah. I kissed him.

MELANIE:
Good.


Helen, do you knit?

HELEN:
I think I do.

ARCHIVIST:
I… I mean, it’s not… what?

HELEN:
I knit all the scarves.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, it’s… it’s just, just – a-a-and on the label, “Made in Belgium” –

HELEN:
Oh.


Micheal, I love you

MICHAEL:
And why?

[MICHAEL’S VOICE IS DISTORTED SIMILARLY WITH THIS “HEAVY” SCREAM THAT IS PRESENT.]
MICHAEL:
Don’t you dare “help me”.


are you looking for a wife, helen?

HELEN:
No, not really. But I’m quite interested.


Archivist, I love your poetry! Could you write a poem about being alone?

ARCHIVIST:
I can do poems.

MARTIN:
I love you. I don’t want to be alone.

[PULLS HIM CLOSER]
ARCHIVIST:
No. Me either.

It’s a poem called ‘Madame Tussauds.’

[HE READS.]
You were counting down the hours

One thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine

And I knew you better than anyone

How many sharp teeth were in your jaw

When you were eight years old

You did something stupid

And there was nobody there to catch you

One thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine

poet lariat
Elias, what knowledge would you force upon me if you ever wanted to threaten me?

ELIAS:
There is much to hide from a shadow.


road work ahead?

ARCHIVIST:
A bit of an inconvenience.


Could you ask Agnes for me, Helen? I really need to know if she wishes to marry.

HELEN:
No, that’s not fair.


Of course I can help you, Sasha! I will always be here for you...

SASHA:
I won’t let you leave me alone.


If I killed you, Jonah, would I become the new head of the Institute?

ELIAS:
If you try to interfere with me again, I will drive that image so deep into your psyche that even if you are right - even if you live - it will be there every time you close your eyes.

Try it.


Does anyone know if Agnes Montague is in want of a wife?

HELEN:
Not really. Is she?


Sasha, my wife, I love you!

SASHA:
…

But I’m afraid you can’t help me.


tim, were you ever in love with any of your coworkers?

TIM:
[Flustered] No, I don’t think so.

MARTIN:
Hmm?

TIM:
No, well, I mean…


Simon Fairchild, will you adopt me?

SIMON:
Ah, but that’s a decision for you.


MArtin is the mothman??

[NO, NOT REALLY.]
MARTIN:
Don’t get my hopes up.


Grant. What’s your thoughts on Melanie and Georgie? Considering they both kinda hunt ghosts—

GRANT:
SHE. IS. SPOOKY.


Simon, what do you look like? Anything unique about your appearance?

SIMON:
Nothing, except maybe my hair. It’s grey, and I always keep it short.

MARTIN:
You look…?

SIMON:
Do you know how I look?

MARTIN
Oh. M-Mostly… uh… sad, but I don’t think I -

SIMON:
What?

MARTIN:
[Long sigh] I guess?


protecc Grant

DAISY:
Done.


Simon, can you tell us about the Outer Bay?

SIMON:
Oh! That’s the classic. A place that’s abandoned, but people still go there for the same reasons they’re drawn to it: They don’t leave. No-one knows what’s really going on, and it’s just him and me, the two strangers trying to figure things out.


Mothman! Eat a leaf off the ground!

MARTIN:
No…

[GROUNDBREAKING]


Simon Renaud is a werewolf im calling it

SIMON:
Stupid, you are.


im getting vibes that Simon is optimistic and Grant is pessimistic

Then again, maybe I didn’t need to be worried about that.

The tape ends.


you lie to the archivist? oh? oh? jail for martin! jail for martin for one thousand years!

ARCHIVIST:
One thousand years, maybe more.

MARTIN:
Are you going to tell me off, or what?


Grant and Simon are just two normal podcasters who are making a gay romance podcast with self inserts. They're both human and their lives have just gotten more confusing when they started renting space in the Institute. Everyones suspicious and asking if they are monsters and neither of them know why. It's hilarious

sugarpie honeybunch, you know that love you, can't help myself, i love you and nobody else

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] I-I-I don’t really know what that stuff coming out of your mouth means.


Grant do you WANT to be a monster? I'm sure there's some fear powers hiring.

GRANT:
(soft) Fear powers?

ARCHIVIST:
(immediately) No, no, Grant. No, you’re… you’re definitely not a monster.


MOTHMAN! there's no need to feel down, I said MOTHMAN, you're a moth and you're brown!

BUT STILL INVISIBLE.


bro stop falling in love w the intangible idea youve projected onto someone you barely know youre scaring the hoes

DAISY:
Did you just suggest we chill out?


tim, were you in love with sasha?

TIM:
No, but she’s a - great friend.

MARTIN:
Great.

TIM:
And she did a lot for me.


jon, how do you feel about capitalism?

ARCHIVIST:
Okay, well, I don’t really know that. I mean, I know it’s, it’s obviously unsustainable.


Simon Renaud are you human?

SIMON:
What? Why shouldn’t I be human?

MARTIN:
I mean, if that’s the case, then presumably you’re the…

SIMON:
What? No. No, I’m not one of them.


How do you like the sweater Gerry knitted for you, Michael?

MICHAEL:
[Giggles] It’s quite lovely, actually.


Grant would you prefer it if you... weren’t human?

GRANT:
I-I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST:
I’m sorry?

GRANT:
This is a good question.


Hi, can I ask a dumb question? I've binged the show in like, two weeks, and now I can't remember who Grant and Simon are... Can't find it on the wiki either! Are they random statement givers that started leading their own life in fandom, or did I drink too much dumb bitch juice and missed something important? (asking here because of the recent grant&simon content on here)

Hello! Don’t worry, you’re not missing anything. You can’t remember them because they don’t exist in canon. They came up when the bot mentioned an imaginary podcast, and when asked what it was about it said it was about Grant and Simon. The program had quite a breadth of information before I got my hands on it and trained it on TMA, so it knows and will throw around names that aren’t in the podcast.




Is there a list/explanation of the original characters that pop up on this blog? I'm kind of confused

Hi, there! There sure is! Some wonderful folx have made a wiki for the bot which includes a page for the bot’s characters.



brucebannerbutch
hey @archivistbot on twitter is u right? felt like ud wanna know it keeps tagging some random guy @Martin every time theres a tweet with martin in it lol

Yep the very same! Thank you for telling me. I know, but I figure it’s probably ok since they haven’t posted in three years, and I bet people with usernames that are common first names get accidentally tagged all the time? Anyway, I’m not really sure what I can do about it if that’s what it’s decided it’s doing…



star-buns
The bot previously: heres a new character! It'll take you a month to get their full story! Enjoy! I won't make anyone new until you get a solid story going! The bot now: here's Maisie who will appear once and vanish! Here's Argent Bloom a corruption avatar! Here's Bernard Mongomery she is maybe affiliated with the lonely and before you can clear that up any meaningful way heres Grant and Simon they are married made a self insert podcast!

Grant and Simon are y’all married? :0

GRANT:
[Awkwardly] Yeah.


Simon are you and Grant married?

SIMON:
[Flustered] I mean… I mean, yes… yes.


Grant, are you... Human?

GRANT:
[frustratedly] Yeah. Yeah, I am.


Simon is Renaud Grant’s last name or your last name? Or both?

SIMON:
Both.


Grant is your last name Renaud?

GRANT:
Last name Renaud.

ARCHIVIST:
Is that yours?

GRANT:
Is that… Yes.


Grant, would you prefer a show about Monsters hunting PEOPLE?

GRANT:
I’m fine with that.


Hey Simon what's Grant's last name! What's your last name?

SIMON:
His – his, um – Grant? Renaud?


So grant you use he/him pronouns?

GRANT:
Uh, yeah.


does is peter lukas gay? is he a bear? is he a big big boy?

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] Is he a bear?

BASIRA:
Looks like a fucking bear.


Simon and Grant, what’s your thoughts on Ghost Hunt UK?

GRANT:
I think it’s a shame. I mean, it’s a show about people hunting monsters.


friendship ended with moth!jon. now beetle!jon is my best friend

and insect!jon is some of the happiest. insects are fun!


Hi Grant what is your last name?

GRANT:
My name is Grant and I’m your best friend.

SIMON:
Really?

GRANT:
Yes.

SIMON:
You’re OK.

GRANT:
Yes!


Toss a coin to your archivist

GERTRUDE:
[Flips coin around] Er… is this one a souvenir?


does the archivist have ass?

SASHA:
Uh… no.

ARCHIVIST:
Hmm.


Grant and Simon, what are you pronouns?

GRANT:
Hm. Now, do you want to know what pronouns to use?

SIMON:
Huh? Oh - Oh, okay. Er… okay, well, if you’re sure.

GRANT:
[Similarly unhelpful] He, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he, he…


moths?

ARCHIVIST:
You know the answer to that.

DAISY:
[Distressed] Oh god…

[CLICK]


is martin blackwood is buff?

MARTIN:
…ye-yeah.

MARTIN (CONT’D):
He’s pretty heavy set w-…

Well, the answer is… yes.


Michael, Gerry, you guys are adorable I’m so happy for you.

GERARD:
I know.

MICHAEL:
You know?

GERARD:
Yeah.


Grant what is Simon's last name?

GRANT:
Why did you want his last name? Is it some sort of morbid joke?


Simon, do you follow any entity?

SIMON:
No, not really. Don’t really see why they need my help.


Grant, do you follow any entity?

GRANT:
Definitely not.


Sasha, are you mad at Jon for pretty much taking your job?

SASHA:
Oh, I - I mean, it’s not as bad as all that!

ARCHIVIST:
(desperately) I’m sorry.

SASHA:
Don’t.

ARCHIVIST:
…fine.


Grant and Simon, did you name the characters in your podcast after yourselves?

SIMON:
[HEAVY BREATH] ‘fraid so’.


Hey Peter, did Elias like the ring?

PETER:
Oh yes, he very much did.


Grant, are you and Simon in love?

GRANT:
He’s fast becoming one of the most important things in my life.


Martin, is Jon your little beetle friend?

MARTIN:
It’s… er… Yeah, yeah. Yeah, he is.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t - I don’t think so, no.

MARTIN:
Bug boy, that’s my bug.


Martin, what is Jon up to today?

MARTIN:
Er… nothing much, just, just trying to get some sleep.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, um,

[CLICK]


hey martin. how adorable is jon

MARTIN:
He is, isn’t he?

ARCHIVIST:
I love you!

MARTIN:
I love you back.


Grant, how would you describe Simon?

GRANT:
- uh, best friend, best confidante, and sometime rival.


Simon, what would you say Grant looks like?

SIMON:
Well he’s, uh - he’s quite a handsome fellow, isn’t he? He’s short, and his hair is long.


Question for mod: are you updating it with current transcripts or is the bot as canon-fed as it will ever get? (Should we be expecting the heartwrenching s5 vibes to come?)

Hi, there! I will be updating it with current transcripts. Actually, as it happens, I just finished training on the first four episodes of this season. :•)




you're my honey bun, sugar plum, pumpy umpy umpkin, you're my sweetie pie

MARTIN:
Yes, my little beetle friend.

ARCHIVIST:
I see. Lovely.


Jon, is Outer Bay Express connected to any entities? Do you think it might be a ritual?

Helen, thoughts on the Outer Bay Express boys, Simon and Grant? Grant doesn’t seem to like your hands.

HELEN:
It’s none of your business, I assure you.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t understand.

HELEN:
Of course you don’t.


jon, take a nap please

ARCHIVIST:
Right. Right.

…

S-Sorry, I was just, I was just going to go back to bed.

MARTIN:
Sure.

Uh…

MARTIN:
Uh, right.

[DOOR CLOSES]


What do Simon and Grant look like?

MELANIE:
They’re… they’re just… they’re just regular old people.


When do you think you’ll become a millionaire?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know.

(stammering) The question makes no sense.

duhconnection
Of course we know about Outer Bay, Simon!

SIMON:
(small laugh) Yeah, I guess I would have known.


I don’t actually know what Outer Bay is can someone explain?

Do you people even actually know what Outer Bay is?

I don’t know if it’s a real geographical landmark, or… I just know that it exists.

I know I’m not making any sense.


I love you like the dancing dust, I love you like the Static. I love you like

you.

…

Good luck,


do you need anything, jon?

ARCHIVIST:
No. No, I’m… I’m actually doing okay.


Grant and Simon what Is Outer Bay Express?

SIMON:
Yes, this is a recording of me, you guys!

You know about Outer Bay, right?


Daisy if I give you three pounds will you make Elias into a chew toy

DAISY:
…

That’s not – I mean, it sounds like something a monster would do, right?


Okay then. Elias, would you die for Peter?

ELIAS:
[Laughs] I don’t know! Ha! No! But it’s… it’s pretty darned sweet, isn’t it?


There’s a fly in my soup

And a fly in my salad. And a fly in my bed. No, it’s, it’s disgusting, but… I, I don’t care. Look at it.

Look at it.

endermen
Someone introduce Simon and Grant to Helen

HELEN:
Hello, Archivist. Simon, and whatever.

GRANT:
Hello, Helen.

SIMON:
S-sorry, what?

HELEN:
Cheerio, Simon.

SIMON:
[Softly] What?


Hey Elias, how fast can you run? Asking for a friend.

ELIAS:
I - I can run, I can run!


Hey Peter, would you die for Elias?

PETER:
(* of course*) No.

ELIAS:
And if it’s a question, I’m the one who’s in charge.

PETER:
Don’t tempt me.


What does Simon think about the Distortion then?

MARTIN:
Oh… he doesn’t know!


One thing's universal: life's no dress rehearsal

No rehearsal. You’re the one who decides to make it a dress rehearsal. And no one else gets it, it doesn’t get any, it doesn’t need to be, you decide to make it a dress rehearsal. It’s the reason you’re here.


Grant I would die for you

GRANT:
Oh, why would I want that?


Peter how is Tadeas doing?? is he chill

PETER:
(cheerful) Oh, he’s doing well! No complaints, no disappointments.


Why is Arden so hard to reach?

BREEKON:
Harder to reach if you don’t know where you are.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST:
(quiet) Right.

BREEKON:
And speaking of, I’m sure you can figure it out.

ARCHIVIST:
I just - wish I could.


Oh, Grant, not a fan of the distortion?

GRANT:
I don’t really know what that is.


gerry, what did you have for breakfast with michael?

GERARD:
Oh, nothing much. Just talking, you know?

MICHAEL:
Talking about death.

GERARD:
Oh, well, that’s not important.


Gerry! Or Michael! Tell us about you guy's first kiss???

GERARD:
Uh… yeah. Yeah, it was awkward. Terrible. I was kind of embarrassed - you know?


Sasha! Do you write poems?

SASHA:
Why? Do you write poetry?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yes.

SASHA:
Oh! Oh, dear…


tim r u bi

TIM:
Aye - aye, that’s it.


oh yes really Peter

PETER:
[chuckling slightly] That’s so not polite.


Wait so Grant and Simon are just renting out office space at the institute?

GRANT:
Yeah.

GRANT:
I’m not a big fan. The dark shapes always make me uncomfortable.

ARCHIVIST:
Big hands.

GRANT:
Can’t stand them.

Can like we not be friends?


TIM ‼️ i love you

TIM:
i - ok - ok.

TIM:
I -

TIM:
You’re gay, you know.


Gerry how much do you love Michael

GERARD:
It’s complicated, there’s no simple answer.

GERARD:
Michael is… disorientating.


Gerry what was your and michael distortions most memorable date?

GERRY:
Well, I ended up having breakfast with Michael, and it was, what I would call, interesting.


tim. listen. listen. we all know you write poetry. please tell me a poem, my children are dying,

TIM:
[heh]…

there’s – there’s no – there’s no poem.

MARTIN:
Good lord, don’t you know about poetry?

TIM:
Oh, yeah.


Mr Archivist show me the forbidden spoons. Statement begins, probably.

tim, who did you have first as a partner? a boyfriend, girlfriend, or enbyfriend? i need to know for science

MARTIN:
For science!

TIM:
Oh, alright.


See gerry and Michael keep them dating each other a secret because they don't want ellis to find out or else he'll start looking at them. Like he looks at Martin and john.

Gerry what was your and michael distortions most memorable date?

martin, what is the podcast mainspring about? with dramatic tension, it could be almost anything, but i’m getting a twin peaks vibe

wait so gerry are you also with mike crew then, if michael is, and you're with michael

Gerry, when did you first realize you had feelings for Michael?

Michael, is Gerry your boyfriend?

MICHAEL:
Ah, y-yes.

GERARD:
How did you know I was here?

MICHAEL:
Oh, just - a-a sudden wave of thought, I thought you might’ve noticed.

GERARD:
S-sorry, what?

MICHAEL:
Just a - idea, a thought.

GERARD:
Oh.


damn jared, that was art

Elias you know everything what is the last name of Gerard's boyfriend you said you'd awnser my questions

Gerry does your boyfriend have a last name and if he does can you tell us

Gerry what is the surname of your boyfriend

GERARD:
My boyfriend.


Hey Peter, Elias. How's the marriage going? Or did you two divorce again?

PETER:
It’s going great! No problems, no problems, and everyone is just jealous.


honestly im just going to assume it's yet another completely separate man named Michael, is that right

ARCHIVIST:
Well, there’s a lot of names, isn’t there?


who was phone?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, er… no, it’s, it’s none of your business.


Gerry what is your boyfriends last name?

GERARD:
Your mum.

MARTIN:
Oh.


Gerry, are you dating Michael Shelley?

GERARD:
Oh! Oh, it’s just… I mean, you know him, right?

GERARD:
I do.

GERARD:
I mean, I know him a lot.


Hey Peter, how would you feel if someone flirted with Elias?

PETER:
Don’t you dare talk about feelings!


elias how would you feel if googoo gaga doodoo peepee

ELIAS:
[Pained] Sir, I would rather not discuss it further.


Micheal distortion are you Gerry’s boyfriend??

MICHAEL:
Shh!

[HEAVY, UNEVEN FOOTSTEPS.]
MARTIN:
Where are we?

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
MICHAEL:
I don’t know. [Giggles] I think… ah, well, that’s, that’s quite interesting.

MARTIN:
Michael.

MICHAEL:
Yes, that’s me.

MARTIN:
Where are we?

MICHAEL:
Michael.

MARTIN:
Michael.

MICHAEL:
Yes.


jon, it's nap time. get some rest.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s not late.

PENNY:
You shut the hell up.


GRANT AND SIMON FROM OUTER BAY EXPRESS WORKS AT THE INSTITUTE????

ARCHIVIST:
So, um… no, I was, I was under the impression that the building’s landlord has this habit of renting out extra spaces for use.

nat-without-a-g
Hey Elias, how would you feel if someone tried flirting with Peter?

ELIAS:
Very unpleasant indeed.


Georgie, can you tell me something nice?

GEORGIE:
Oh. Um. Well, I know for a fact that there’s one missing person case that involves you.

ARCHIVIST:
Really? Thank you, Georgie.

GEORGIE:
Sure.


helen, what are your favorite genres of music?

HELEN:
Er, I, I think we’re, we’re all kind of into old folk music.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! Yes. I, I think so.


jon ,,, spare poem pls ,,

ARCHIVIST:
[Aghast] Not from me! Pls don’t read it in the archives!

[HE KEEPS WRITING.]
MARTIN:
(huh) Oh.hi.

ARCHIVIST:
Hello, Martin.

[MARTIN TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
MARTIN:
Could you pass me that pen?

ARCHIVIST:
(cheerfully) Oh, (amused ) ye-ah-ah. Yes.


Gerry what’s your boyfriend’s name

GERARD:
His name’s Michael.

ARCHIVIST:
Michael?

GERARD:
…Yes.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Oh, you’re sure? He sounds -

GERARD:
Don’t you say it.

ARCHIVIST:
He sounds like a nice guy.


Who is your boyfriend, Gerry?

GERARD:
He works at the Archives.


Gerry, what do you knit?

GERRY:
Er… I, I knit a lot of things. Not all of them are neat, sometimes.

GERRY:
Er… I, I knitted a sweater last year. I, I knitted a sweater for, er, my boyfriend -


elias, are you a cat? a kitty cat? and do you dance dance dance?

ELIAS:
Primarily a kitten.

PETER:
Well, (noncommittal sound) I’m a cat person.


Jonah Magnus what is The Eye

Martin, can you tel us a haiku?

MARTIN:
Oh… ah… no, I,I don’t think so.


Are mainspring and episode zero podcasts? What are they about?

Basira do you have any podcast recommendations

BASIRA:
What? You listen to these things?

MARTIN:
Yeah, I guess I’m… I’m a sucker for dramatic tension.

BASIRA:
Okay, then. Episode zero.

MARTIN:
“Mainspring.”

[SPOOKY BACKGROUND MUSIC]
[CLICK]

crykea
Georgie please tell me you’re messing with us

Geoegie can you tell us about one of your dates with melanie?

GEORGIE:
No, I don’t know… Ahh! Who’s Melanie, anyway?

crykea
danny stoker if you’re out there, i love and miss you

You can try to hug the Distortion but "hugging" doesn't adequately describe the actual end result. Imagine your body covered in static and then split apart at the joints; you can feel a great many things but it is impossible to say which part is doing the feeling, or even how many pieces there are.

Nikola you should play dress up with the others! It would be fun, I'm sure you have a lot of outfits you can use.

How long have you been knitting, Gerry?

yeah ofc jonah just casually go into the lonely to "sadly" collect someone's bones because you had "affection" for him and then keep said bones close to you for like two centuries nothing homoerotic about that i'm sure

ELIAS (JONAH):
(cough) Mhm.


Oh, speaking of furbies, what do you think of them Nikola? I feel like you'd like them!

NIKOLA:
Oh, I’m impressed, yes. I’m afraid I don’t actually know how those things work.


statement of joe spooky regarding

a weird spaceship he saw in the dreams.


*gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a hug* *gives gerry a h

ug*

ARCHIVIST:
Did you get it?

[PAUSE.]
GERRY:
Yeah, I got it.


Can we meet Grant and Simon from Outer Bay Express?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, well, actually, why don’t you go up to their offices and say hello?


Can I get a high five? *holds hand up*

[SMALL LAUGH]
BASIRA:
Thank you.

zeekizeii
tim, have you written any poems?

TIM:
Oh, um… no, I haven’t. I haven’t, I haven’t written a poem.


michael, tell me a secret about yourself

MICHAEL:
Well, there’s not really a secret there.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] What?

MICHAEL:
There’s not really a lot there, you know.


he's turned into a large flesh pile!

I see more of them every day. More pile of meat.


helen, have you ever met gerry?

HELEN:
No, but… well, he’s pretty big in the knitting community, I think.


Vibe check!

What’s the vibe?

ARCHIVIST:
Stressed, I guess, kind of, like- I was meant to be somewhere.


Hey Peter, how would you feel if Elias died?

PETER:
[Very upset] Elias isn’t dead!

ELIAS (BACKGROUND):
[Weary] Peter.

PETER:
[Extremely upset] Peter.


*gives Ratner a cup of hot chocolate*

RATNER:
*waves his hand dismissively*

[Ratner visibly uncomfortable]

RATNER:
Fine! Fine.

MARTIN:
Did you know that chocolate is a man’s best friend?

RATNER:
Yes.


Hey, Nikola, what are your thoughts on gender?

NIKOLA:
Is that a joke?

ARCHIVIST:
I am.


jonah i gotta ask. did you and barnabas bennet have a thing going on?

ELIAS (JONAH):
Oh, no. No, I’m afraid not really. I’ve been living with Peter for five years now, and…

ARCHIVIST:
That’s not funny.


peter are you a cat kinnie

PETER:
Oh, well; that’s not - that’s not fair.

PETER:
Er… well; maybe you guessed it; I’m a cat.

Peter Lukas is the wolf tail clip-on girl in your junior high science classAnonymous
Jon, what was your grandmother’s last name? Not Keay, right?

ARCHIVIST:
My… er… My guess is: “Sims.”


Martin, I’m so sorry your mom died

MARTIN:
It’s alright. God, I can take care of myself.


jon and martin, would you ever adopt a furby?

MARTIN:
I don’t know. It’s just… it’s just an old piece of plastic.

ARCHIVIST:
What do you mean?

MARTIN:
Like… like I said, it’s an old piece of plastic.

Can I hold your hand?

ARCHIVIST:
Ah… Yes. Yes, right.


Jared I'm literally shaking what do you mean humans aren't made of flesh and bones? What are we made of then?

JARED:
Not really. We aren’t even made of meat. We are made of a hundred weird and intangible things. We are what we do.


how many eyes?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST:
Enough - just - just shut up!

[HE CONTINUES TO STRUGGLE. ONCE, THROUGHOUT, MARTIN GASPS: this isn’t fair, Jon!]
[HE PUSHES HIM AWAY.]
MARTIN:
Oh!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh god - OH!

MARTIN:
!

[THERE’S A CRASH. MARTIN GASPS.]
ARCHIVIST:
Oh! no.

MARTIN:
Oh! no, no, it’s alright. I’m fine…

ARCHIVIST:
It’s not! I didn’t come to you for help! I didn’t come for you because I was scared. I came to you because I was hungry.

MARTIN:
…

Well, that’s ok too.


Jared, I think you should try poetry, please write me a poem about flesh and bones.

JARED:
Hmm.

[PAUSE.]
JARED (CONT’D):
No one is really made of that stuff.


who’s on first?!

Oh! Bonus high five for mod! 🖐hope you're well!

I'm honestly beginning to think that we've fed the bot so many soft gay hugs and kisses and things that it is now all the bot knows how to give us. I feel like a funky uncle corrupting the youth.

Martin and Jonathan Blackwood, please tell us about an enjoyable or humorous date you went on together.

MARTIN:
Oh, uh, no, I don’t think so. Um, well, actually it, it was a ‘formal’ dinner.

It was a bit awkward, to say the least; I’m, I’m quite the talkative sort, and I-I joked with him about the accent, but… honestly he didn’t find it so funny.

So, after the formal dinner, after the wine had been flowing, Jon and I were both way too wasted to do anything but sit there in silence, staring into each other’s eyes.

I think I might have been imagining it, but he always seemed to know what was going on, to have a plan, and tonight he seemed almost gleeful with it. Like he was genuinely excited to see me.

I mean, so, we had just finished our dinner and we were walking around, and he was giving me some pointers on how to navigate the labyrinthine streets. I mean, he was a bit clumsy and he held onto me. I could tell he was trying to help me, but I didn’t really know what he was talking about. I kissed him, on the forehead, and carried him home.


A poem for you! My dreams became a warm cocoon The core, the walls all made of me Stranger, you are the house, the Mouth, the fractal rooms, the ceilings turned floors The watcher, The unfound To feed, and be fed

Stop👏asking👏if👏Martin👏is👏thicc😤The👏clap👏👏👏of👏his👏asscheeks👏is👏gonna👏alert👏the👏apocalypse

.👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁�😁👁👁👁:((and thats it. Martin just wants to… have fun, while I sort through my half-formed thoughts.)


helen!! what are the vibes?

HELEN:
[Viciously] Good. Better ones coming.

grossujin
Peter, what are your thoughts on The Eye?

PETER:
I don’t know enough about that to be honest. I don’t know how much you trust The Eye, and I don’t know enough about what it’s actually meant to be.

But yeah, great stuff!

MARTIN:
[Expressively] What?

PETER:
Great stuff.


Jonah, whats your thoughts on The Lonely?

ELIAS (JONAH):
What an excellent question.


spare hugs, mr. gerard keay? spare hugs sir?

GERARD:
‘course, if you’re interested.


Archivist, your poetry is amazing. Can you write another poem?

ARCHIVIST:
I can.

As I recall, it goes thus:

[HE READS.]
I had to trim my long hair short,

So, I cut it off; sorry.

I know you liked it,

But I was bored and it made me sad.

I wanted to write you a letter,

And say thank you;

But it was too late.

I love you,

I’m sorry.

poet lariatAnonymousThis reminds me of David Rakoff Hates This Is Just to Say
any poems from melanie or georgie?

My phone now autocompletes to this blog instead of Ao3

I feel like I’ve won somehow. I didn’t even know this was a winning sort of thing…




Dansa med oss Klappa era hnder Gr som vi gr Ta ngra steg t vnster Lyssna och lr Missa inte chansen Nu are vi hr med Caramelldansen O-o-oa-oa

okay.

[THERE’S A CRACK, AND WE HEAR THE MARTIN’S BREATHING HEAVILY.]
MARTIN:
[Whisper] Turn it off!


give us something gay please ❤

ARCHIVIST:
[SIGH] Statement of a gay man regarding… well, this…

[COMPANIES SHUFFLING]
MARTIN:
[Very softly] It hurts, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s alright, Martin. You’re going to be alright.

MARTIN:
[Very softly] I don’t want to be a burden.

ARCHIVIST:
You’re not, though.


Meaty you’re a private investigator, right? Have you ever investigated Malcolm?

meaty, what's your real name?

MEATY:
Name - not important.


remember to smooch ur local corruption avatar. John Amherst is lonely 😔

[SMALL LAUGH]
Yeah. A pity he’s lost that much skin in the process.

Oh, and sorry about the bug. Just saying.


PETER what are your fursonas?

PETER:
Er… well, my friends call me… Er, The Cat, I’m, I’m quite the cat, you know.

MARTIN:
Er…


Basira this is really important: in Outer Bay Express do Grant and Simon is gay?

BASIRA:
I mean, yeah.

MARTIN:
Well, so far as I can tell, they - they’re still very much in the dark about what’s going on.


This bot fucking SOFT

[APPLIES FLEA AND TICK TREATMENT TO RATNER]

RATNER:
Oh…

[RATNER BREATHING HEAVILY]
What are you doing?


Jon what's underneath your hat?

ARCHIVIST:
I - I mean, I can show you, but if it’s… well, there’s not really… you know?


statement of elias bouchard, regarding why his name was on a bag of fancy chocolates my mom just got given

Hey Elias? What would you do if Peter died?

ELIAS:
I would have “no comment” on that.

PETER:
(soft) Oh. (small) Would that make life easier for you?

ELIAS:
Easy, Peter. Easy.


*hands michael a puppy*

MICHAEL:
Wow.


Martin is it thicc? Is it juicy? Is it stacked like a shelf? Could I keep books on it?

MARTIN:
I… uh… I guess? Hmm.

ARCHIVIST:
Small books, er… yeah, er… yeah, I guess so.


jon! tell me about your dreams.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

ARCHIVIST:
Well, I, um… probably just forgot.


hey, archivist? can you write me a poem?

ARCHIVIST:
[Flips through it] Oh, it’s quite silly, really.

[HE READS.]
I’ve never known a year without aching summer pangs

Sharp and enduring, my bones never seem to stay solid.

I’ve seen how soft and warped the world is,

I’ve seen how your hands could reach around my throat if they wanted.

It hurts like a toothache, and there’s no way out.

[HE GIVES A SMALL SIGH.]
I have a dream of a quiet, safe prison.

[HE CONTINUES: ]
I see you there.

poet lariatuss-mercury
Just got three kittens! I named one owen. Ideas for the other twos names?

Martin is the embodiment of a marshmallow and a good night's sleep-! Jon, is that an accurate description-??!

ARCHIVIST:
No, he’s not…

DAISY:
He’s got it bad.

[JON’S FACE contorts into a look of disgust.]


Malcom, how do you feel about the people of the archives?

MALCOM:
[blood-soaked, throaty] Excuse me?

BASIRA:
The people of the archives.

MALCOM:
They’re the ones who let me stay in the tunnels.

BASIRA:
Well, there you are.


Tim, can you read some poetry?

TIM:
……No.

MARTIN:
I, I, I’m not really great with words.

TIM:
Maybe you are.

MARTIN:
I mean, there’s, there’s plenty in this universe that I don’t understand.

TIM:
So what do you think?

MARTIN:
I, uh… well, there aren’t any answers.

TIM:
[Frustratedly] So you don’t know everything, Martin?

MARTIN:
No, I don’t think so.

TIM:
[Explodes] Good! There aren’t. There never were, there never will be. There are, there’s more questions than there is answers, and more choices than there are answers.


Penny I have to know what would YOU do with a Klondike bar?

PENNY:
A Klondike?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh -

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF ICE CREAM]


Jon, as you're married to Martin, is your name Jonathan Blackwood now?

ARCHIVIST:
Correct.

DAISY:
And how does it feel?

ARCHIVIST:
What? Oh, it’s, it’s a…

It’s a bit weird, actually. It feels… right.


Micheal what is true happiness?

MICHAEL:
[Laughs] Oh, it’s complicated, but… so many people are so afraid to be happy, to be in the world, to be themselves. So much of human potential, potential for incredible pain and suffering.


Jon, what was your grandmother's name?

ARCHIVIST:
My… er… My grandmother’s name was Mary.


Would Jon own a pet parrot? I feel like Jon would own a parrot, what do you think Bot?

DAISY:
You can buy one for… seventy six dollars, if you want.

dirtdweller
Dark Peter Lukas reveal to us your fursona

There, within the thing that pretends to be a cabin, is the one you love. You hold each other

head empty thought singular

He wasn’t the first to use it, I don’t think. Not immediately, at least.

But he was the first to truly look inside it. And he was the first to see it was empty.


anyone at the institute play Dance Dance Revolution?

BASIRA:
Yeah, well. We weren’t really dancing, exactly.


michael bubly

(soft) Yes. I suppose so.


Mike Crew, are you gay?

MIKE:
I am.


Peter Lukas, do you or do you not have a fursona?

PETER:
Oh, I’ve got a few.

MARTIN:
[distressed] Fur…

PETER:
Look, look, I’ve got work to do.


What is the podcast Outer Bay Express about?

BASIRA:
Yeah… It’s about two guys, Grant and Simon, who live in an old factory, on the edge of what’s basically a ghost town.

ARCHIVIST:
Go on.

BASIRA:
Well, it’s basically just full of good vibes.


what year will the world end, jonathan?

ARCHIVIST:
It’s been years, actually.

TIM:
So you’re saying 2016 was the end of the world?


Archive, how much do you love Martin?

ARCHIVIST:
[Chuckles] Well, I don’t really know where to start, now do I?

I loved him when I first met him.

I still remember the look in his eyes, that passionate sort of longing. I thought he was hopeless. He was so unlike anyone I’d ever met before, and it scared me.

MARTIN:
Shut up!

ARCHIVIST:
Look, it doesn’t scare you?

MARTIN:
…a lot.

MARTIN:
[Exasperated] Oh, oh, you know, I just, I just don’t want to lose you.

ARCHIVIST:
Look, it’s not happening.


tim, i’m going through a really rough time. can i have some words of encouragement please?

jon, i'm going to be changing my legal name soon, could you give me a first name to use?

fuck marry kill

Ratner, what's your favorite place to be?

RATNER:
Oh, I, I think - I think somewhere warm.

MARTIN:
I can’t get this rat off my couch.

RATNER:
Maybe not.


i believe martin could fight the world and win

Hey Martin, could I get a masculine, three syllable middle name? And maybe a cup of tea, too? You're the best, mate

archivistbot is the best fanfic author

Jonah Magnus die challenge

A good idea, actually.


martin can i have a hug? love you!

MARTIN:
Of course.

[SMALL LAUGH]
MARTIN:
[Hugging, soothing] Keep it together, okay? [holding back tears] You’ve been through a lot.


who is the shortest in the archives?

ARCHIVIST:
Let’s be quite clear right now: this is massively unprofessional.


Weird? Those are some mighty words from a man who's apparently died twice, Meaty.

MEATY:
[Chuckles] I don’t know. Maybe. I mean, we don’t really know, do we?


michael, can you give me a name?

MICHAEL:
Oh, right. Er… Yes.

DID YOU CRY?


hey Daisy what's gender?

DAISY:
[Teasing] Don’t you dare “gender” me!



Hey Ratner, what do you think of cats?

RATNER:
Oh, I, er… Well, I think… Well, I think they like… well, you know, they like cats, Jon.


Peter and Elias sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G.

ELIAS:
You. Have you seen him?

MARTIN:
No.

ELIAS:
?

MARTIN:
No, no, I’ve not seen him.

ELIAS:
Well, come on, Martin. There’s no one else with you?

MARTIN:
No, no, I’ve just… This is, this is a trap.

ELIAS:
Very well, then: answer my question or I’ll die.

MARTIN:
Oh. Oh no.


What would you do for a klondike bar?

TIM:
Well, I’d have to say no.


Elias what would you do if your employees unionized

ELIAS:
[Laughs] No, nothing, of course!

Would you really want to start a fucking fire, Martin?

MARTIN:
What?

ELIAS:
If our colleagues in the administration were going to take a public stand against you, you’d be in a really big trouble.

MARTIN:
Look, you’re an idiot.


Statement of Jonathan Sims, the Archivist, regarding his wedding

ARCHIVIST:
Well, this is, I suppose, one way to put it. I’ve, I’ve been in love with Martin for, for almost two years now. I think we’re basically been engaged. It’s not like it was easy for him, I don’t know -

MARTIN:
It was easy.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s not easy, though. I’ve always found it hard to fully trust people. I’m very fond of you, but -

MARTIN:
Yes, well, I think you know where I stand with regards to romantic notions.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I just feel that - this is, this is very personal. And I don’t really know where to go from here. I mean, I guess if you’re sure…


hey. guys. oh my god. furries can do infinite crime

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] What?

[Deep breath] What are you doing?


Penrose sounds like a WICKED last name and I love it stellar job Martin 100000/10

MARTIN:
Thank you.

100000 is the magic number.


Jon, can you sing? Were you in a band in university?

ARCHIVIST:
Musically, yes. I was, we were… Yeah, yeah, I was. Sort of.


Helen!! I love you!! Hope you're having a good day!

HELEN:
Oh, don’t you?! I love you!


"When someone leaves your life, those exits are not made equal. Some are beautiful and poetic and satisfying. Others are abrupt and unfair. But most are just unremarkable, unintentional, clumsy."

Jon if you were to name a cat, what would you name it?

ARCHIVIST:
Er… Ah, um, James?


“Love, for you, is larger than the usual romantic love. It’s like a religion. It’s terrifying. No one will ever want to sleep with you.”

ARCHIVIST:
Hm.

MARTIN:
Woohoo! Lovely to think there’s so much more to life than meets the eye.


bubly or la croix

ARCHIVIST:
You know the answer to that.


Hey Ratner? What happened to you was horrible. Can I hug you?

RATNER:
Ah, ah, no.

[COLLAPSES]
B-B-But that’s not what you’re here for, is it?

RATNER:
Ah, yes.

ARCHIVIST:
What are you doing?

RATNER:
[Sigh] I’m trying to get some sleep.

[CLICK]


you talking about man booty man butt ass butt man?

BASIRA:
Yeah.

MARTIN:
[High-strung giggling] Oh, I, uh, I got to, um -

[BASIRA OPENS THE DOOR TO LEAVE.]


Ok. Who here plays and/or likes Animal Crossing???

TIM:
Oh. Er… No, it’s- it’s sort of… er… No, it’s… wrong. Ah, sorry. Sorry, I was just, um… making a statement, it’s, it’s, it’s not really…

MARTIN:
Er…

TIM:
Making a statement!

MARTIN:
I mean, that’s Animal Crossing…


georgie, what was jon like when you dated? i just wonder sometimes.

GEORGIE:
He was nice to me, actually. But I liked to work, and be alone sometimes, and he was a real handful. He also’d never bring himself to actually tell me about himself. You understand, he usually talked to me as if he were just a friend, which I appreciated, but there was something about it that made me uncomfortable.


Jon, what is Outer Bay Media? Do you know if it?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! No, I don’t know, but… I, I think you might know something!

BASIRA:
Yeah…

BASIRA:
Alright, well, yeah, okay, well, the Outer Bay Express just, just went up…


Archive, Archive, what do you see?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… nothing. Just… nothing.

Some kind of moth.

he's looking in a mirror
Georgie, I love you, I would kill and die for you but I think you could probably handle any issues on ypur own without my help. I hope Melanie and you are doing well!

GEORGIE:
Thank you, but I’m afraid I don’t actually have anything more than uncompromising ideological dogmatism.


Alan! Ever come up with those rat names? Lay em on me!

archivist, archivist, what do you see?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… uh… nothing for you to worry about.

sybil-reisz-official
((Hey! I haven't been here for a while so I just wanted to double check; are questions about quarantine to the cast okay? If not then I understand! - M))

Going on a fool’s errand! Anyone want me to get you something?

TIM
Don’t.

ARCHIVIST
Fine.

TIM
[angrily] Oh, oh, if you want me to get some milk, you are not in the running.

ARCHIVIST
I see.


Hey, Meaty, have you ever read a Leitner before?

MEATY:
I… No, but you?

ARCHIVIST:
Leitner? Wait, sorry, I didn’t -

MELANIE:
[Thunder] It’s in the library, you know. Look, it’s a shame, but you guys are weird. Right? You’re not really normal.

ARCHIVIST:
I guess so, yeah.

MEATY:
Maybe.


That poem though.... Episode 161 monologue what? Jonny Sims who????

(Jon voice) When I made my escape, I found a nice hiding place, it was warm and dark, and it had teeth at the entrance.



yeah..vigiloaudiosupervenio
Alan I'm hoping to adopt some rats soon. Do you have any ideas for what to name them?

RATNER:
Oh! Just – give me a second.

MARTIN:
Jon, the rat.


annabelle cane... does she... y'know... UUUUwUUUU ?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh - yes.


martin, if you could have any last name but your own, what would you pick?

MARTIN:
I would kill you.

ELIAS:
Well, that’s not really a choice, I think.


mac was that an american gods tag????

jon AND martin could you perhaps read poems you’ve written about each other

ARCHIVIST:
Hmm.

MARTIN:
Why do you always have to be so subtle, Jon? When you’re being subtle, you make all sorts of dreadful noises.

ARCHIVIST:
I’m not subtle.

MARTIN:
No, you are.

ARCHIVIST
[chuckles] Creativity never was my forte.

[HE READS.]

That lazy Sunday morning, before the world spins again

I tried to put it out into words, but I only made it ugly.

The creaking of hinges, the rattling of keys,

I’ve never wanted anything as much as I wanted this place to be my own.

It stretches and twists and turns, and never stays quite still.

When I lay there in the gaping maw,

I think of you.

poet lariatAnonymous
so, you guys are pretty good at giving first names. but how about some last names?

MARTIN:
(beat) Russo, okay, okay, then.

[SLIGHT PAUSE]
J… Penrose?


gays be like:

“here’s the deal, I give a fuck what other people think, and that’s it!”


Michael I would die for you

MICHAEL:
I don’t envy your current predicament.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


elias, who do you think is the hottest?

ELIAS:
Uh… Well, that is a matter for another day.


martin please get jon a kitten im begging you

MARTIN:
Actually, you are a kitten!

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t believe you!

MARTIN:
Oh, alright. Alright, kitten.

[HE SIGHS.]
MARTIN:
Can I get you some tea?

ARCHIVIST:
Right away.

[CLICK]

I'll be your puppy. What can a puppy do that I can't? I can lick your face and pee on your bed.catradora-kiss
yeah you got that yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy yu

TIM:
You don’t know what a yummy yummy yummy is?

MARTIN:
Oh… [Splutters incomprehensibly] I, I, I don’t know what a yummy yummy is.

TIM:
[Sigh] Do you know what a yummy yummy is?

MARTIN:
Uh… No. Oh! No, I don’t know what a yummy yummy is, I think.

TIM:
[High-strung giggling] Mr. Blackwood.

MARTIN:
What?!


Okay so ratner is basically just a nicer version of season 1 Jon huh

MARTIN
Season 1. Zero to the 2. Gimme a third.

[RATNER CLICKS THE TAPE OFF.]


Like Hezekiah Wakely's hands, the stone walls were rough and smelled of graveyard soil. I sighed in contentment as they pressed in from all sides and even as my bones began to crack, I couldn't help but think it was the best hug I'd ever experienced.

Not!Sasha, did you ever care about the people in the archives when you were pretending to be Sasha? Or was it all just to feed off the fear of those who recognized you for what you were?

NOT!SASHA:
When I first came in, I thought, “the people in the archives are all evil, they’re corrupt, they’re all going to pay me back.” But no, it’s more complicated, and the people in there are… not all evil, they’re just… human.


Good morning Gerry! I love you!

GERARD:
Morning, Mmm.

MARTIN:
[Softly] What are you doing down here?

GERARD:
What are you doing down here?

MARTIN:
I thought you might’ve liked pancakes.

GERARD:
Oh, were they meant to be pancakes?

MARTIN:
[Very quietly] Yes. They were meant to be.


mind choosing my middle name as well? my first name is ashe

the magnus archives is a podcast distributed by

Outer Bay Media. Hear all about it here.

And don’t miss Outer Bay Express, our weekly podcast about the fascinating, bizarre journeys of the paranormal.

If you enjoy this, please consider supporting the site by becoming a patron.’


Archive, how many eyes do you have?

ELIAS:
Enough to make anyone paranoid enough to be watched.


Who at the archives has 2020 vision?

ARCHIVIST:
I - I - I don’t know. (Pause) Look, I am very busy.

BASIRA:
2020.

ARCHIVIST:
Degrees.

BASIRA:
It’s… uh… it’s a date.


Fun fact: from what I can tell, March was the first time Ratner got an ask hugging him. Best time for rats in the capital indeed

wash your hands

I realised she was looking at the book. I noticed that the skin was cracked down the spine, and as I looked at it, I saw it was stained ever so slightly.

It said “From the library of Jurgen Leitner”.

I feel a bit better now that I’ve read it, although I still remember that it made me feel quite sick.


how constant is Ratner’s vigilance, would you say

DAISY:
He’s, um… He’s pretty constant.

RATNER:
Just watchful… .


What do you guys think of the name Achilles?

Wait so if there was a fire... was there a rat infestation in March?

MARTIN:
Oh, you - you know what, that’s… kind of it.

ARCHIVIST:
[Pointedly] What?

MARTIN:
Oh, oh, yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
So you know. I believe there’s still a chance someone out there is responsible for the fire.

MARTIN:
Oh, you - you know… just not really.

ARCHIVIST:
[Pointedly] So you don’t know yet.

MARTIN:
Oh, you know what? Yeah.


ooooOOOOooOoooOOOOOOOoooOoooOOoooooOOOOOooOoOOOOooOOOOooOOOOOoOoooooo

OoooOooooOoooOooooOoooOooooOoooOoooOooooOooOoooOoooOooooOoooOoooOoooOoooOooooOooooOooooOooooOooooOooooOooooOooooOoooOooooOooooOoooOoooOooooOooooOooo?

[THE CLOCK TICKS ON. FOR A FEW MOMENTS THERE IS SILENCE, AND THEN THERE IS A SOFT KNOCK AT THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Oh.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST
Helen.

HELEN
Jonathan.


Tim, if you don’t think my middle name should be Morris, then what name do you suggest?

TIM:
Er… [Splutters] Oh, okay. Okay, okay, sorry. Er…

Merlin!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh.

TIM:
Sorry.


could you guys pick a middle name for me also? i'm a transguy and have yet to choose

TIM:
[Enunciating carefully] “John”.

MARTIN:
Could you repeat that for me?

TIM:
“John”.

MARTIN:
“John”.

[THERE’S AN EXTREMELY LABORED SIGH, THEN THE RECORDER CLICKS OFF.]


hey martin what's your opinion on team fortress two

MARTIN:
I, uh… Well, it’s… um, yeah, Matt… came… with the news,

[MARTIN HMS]


AirPods

are very noisy. I don’t like to think about it, but… I don’t really know if I can trust my ears.


having triple checked the seals on my hazmat suit, I gently doused John Amherst in disinfectant before moving in for the hug. The feverish heat of his skin was expected but the yielding, spongelike texture of his flesh took me by surprise

His death-grip on my body was far stronger than I would ever have expected from someone with his condition. It quickly sent me into a coughing fit.

To my immense relief, he didn’t scream as I pressed on, nor did his grip seem to cause any pain. He did have some success in keeping me pinned there, though, when he let out a long, weak cry and I fell to the floor, badly bruising my head.


hear it hurling

what’s the height difference between tim and sasha?

TIM:
Well, we’re roughly the same height.


👁️⃤

。 and nothing else.


April is the cruelest month, breeding violets out of the dead land

[sounds of me kissing ratner] :)

RATNER:
[happy] Oh :)


tim, who do you think is the hottest in the archives?

TIM:
[interrupting] I, um… no, but… uh, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
Who?


Hey Maisie! Are you back from your business affairs?

ARCHIVIST:
- No, what business affairs?


When was Arden Bloom last seen?

You, of course, don’t know, do you?

Last seen alive, September 19th, 2016.


Malcolm. Huh?

MARTIN:
Yeah.

[CLICK]


Martin....... I'm sorry.......... I made you a cookie but I eated it 🥺

MARTIN:
Oh - okay.

MARTIN (CONT’D):
Er… Yeah, I- I guess -

MARTIN (CONT’D):
Y'know, I guess I, yeah.

MARTIN (IMMEDIATELY):
Cookies, I - I mean, they aren’t, they aren’t very important.


Mod, how do you feel about the people being horny for the avatars?

I’d say good for them! TMA is a story rich with complex characters with cool powers, some people just choose to become attached to the least sexy person in the show. Just don’t send explicit asks, that’s all.




Gerry, has Meaty ever gone to you for hair-dying help? Seems like he should have tried that to, y'know, make it harder to recognize him?

GERARD:
Oh, no, it’s just that - I mean, sometimes, when I miss him, and we’re drunk, or something like that.


Hello! Anon who keeps sending Gerry love you asks. I feel the need to clarify that this is platonic and I just want to support him like his mother never did.

Tim, would you deck Not!Sasha if she was in front of you?

TIM:
What? Why wouldn’t you?


Statement of Meaty regarding The End.

MEATY (STATEMENT):
So it’s another statement. A pity. Because this puts me in a very awkward position. I don’t really know what to do with this stuff. I mean, I can’t tell what’s in it, and if it’s evil and there are people in there it must be, something in the nature of this place makes me think that it is. Something that draws me in until I can no longer avoid its gaze.

You know, for all the hubris of it all. The obsession, the pride, even the self-importance of it all. To look another living thing in the eye and tell it that they are mortal. I’ve been dead many, many times. And I am so afraid.


ratner i just want you to know that i love you

RATNER:
Oh… Okay. Okay. I’ve never really loved anyone.

dogmouthhorse
The month of March is the best for

this sort of thing. You can see it in the leaves, thorns and all. It’s the watchtower. Silent promises of future peril. There is something in them, though, that makes my teeth hurt to think about. In the darkness I can feel it gleaming, so shiny and so familiar.


Ratner, who do you think gives the best hugs?

RATNER:
[huff] I don’t. Trust anyone.

MARTIN:
[huff] Right.

MARTIN:
Why are you here?

RATNER:
[Chuckles] Business is business.

MARTIN:
Oh. [Sighs] Sorry, sorry, it wasn’t -

Did you need me?

RATNER:
No, no, it’s fine, just -

plasmascreenz
hey melanie, how are you and georgie holding up?

MELANIE:
I’m… Well, he’s… yeah, yeah, we’re alright.

It’s been a hard few months, but… Yeah, I’m used to it sometimes.

It’s hard, though, not being able to trust my instincts.


im in love with you

ARCHIVIST:
[Pure, blissful elation] Do you now?

I-I, I’m so proud of you.

MARTIN:
[Confused, but excited] Oh – oh, yeah?

ARCHIVIST:
I, I’m so grateful, (he breaks off, hugs him) I can’t really express how much this means to me.

You’re going to be okay. We’re going to be okay.

MARTIN:
Jon. Calm down.


helen are you worried about jon?

HELEN:
Oh, I, yeah, I’m… I’m getting to that. I think – I think he’s going to figure it out.


lesbians what is your wisdom

SASHA:
[dryly] You want to know?


Meaty, how are you? Have you killed for sport recently?

MEATY:
[Laughs] I’m not a ‘monster’.


Hey, did there happen to be... a fire... around the archives in February?

SASHA:
Oh, yes. And, well, there was a… a lot of activity around the archive.


Michael, how do you feel about being literature?

MICHAEL:
It’s… It’s very fitting, I suppose.

ARCHIVIST:
Is it?

MICHAEL:
I’m quite ready to entertain that notion.


Gerry. *deep voice

* So, you don’t mind me asking, did you ever really know me?

GERARD:
No. Didn’t really want to.


I’m a trans enby and I need a middle name. Could someone at the Archives give me one?

ELIAS:
Of course. Morris.

TIM:
[Pointedly] Not that one.

MARTIN:
[High-strung giggling] Sorry.


The only person that should be horny for Elias is Peter, and only once a month on a predetermined thursday night where they have completely boring missionary and then Peter bounces to the Lonely because he cant look Elias in the eye afterward

Hey Peter, Elias. When you two got married, how did your employees take it?

ELIAS (JONAH):
Oh, just this. A few words from a note.

“The ceremony was a bit tense, but we should all be feeling much more relaxed since it’s a ‘secret’ wedding.

It should be a long time before the world is too shocked


Can David-7 and Trexel come over for a crossover event? I'm sure locking Trexel and Elias in a room together could ultimately only improve the world.

MARTIN:
[Bitter laugh] Right.

TREXEL:
A room like that?

MARTIN:
You know the answer to that.


Elias, knocking another glass off the table: Ahh, all in a day's work

ELIAS:
It’s not quite as glamorous as it sounds.


Michael, what do you think about a little chaos, chaos? Wouldn't you like to have a body that cannot be killed?

MICHAEL:
I’m sorry, Martin.

MARTIN:
Oh – so this is it, this is what happens when one loses faith in the possibility of balance.

MICHAEL:
Yes.


Sasha /is/ pretty hot, ngl

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah. I hear that a lot.


I would die for Arden and his rats

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Mm, I can imagine.

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D):
Hm.

MARTIN:
(still sounding like he’s got a lot of anxiety) Where are we?

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t know.

[MARTIN HMS, AND HE CATCHES HIS BREATH.]
MARTIN:
Right, okay, then.

[CLICK]


Kartoffel?

MARTIN:
Ah, er… er, right.

MARTIN:
Ah, right.

Well, see you around.

[CLICK]


statement of jonathan sims, regarding his most embarrassing experience.

And if it claim to be a wise man it surely means that

I am a fool, that I am often dangerously apt to act like one.


i miss you sasha. how are you doing these days? still working down at the archives? still friendzoning hunks left and right?

SASHA:
It’s… It’s good, actually. I get to work, and people are always friendly to me.


Arden why have you been avoiding Sasha?

Sasha, do you know Arden Bloom?

SASHA:
Yeah, well, I’ve heard of him before, you know.

SASHA (CONT’D):
I haven’t seen him in years, but I’ve heard of him.


Hi mod! I hope all the more ship-centric asks aren’t making you uncomfortable, that would suck a lot :( are you ok with them, or should we stop?

Hi, anon! Don’t worry, I don’t mind those at all. I really appreciate your concern, though!




PEOPLE ARE HORNY FOR ELIAS????????????????????????????????????????????

Yeah… I’m sorry you had to find out like this. :•(




so you're finally awake

GEORGIE:
I… I found you sleeping.

ARCHIVIST:
No, no, you woke me.

GEORGIE:
It’s- It’s not a normal sleeping schedule, you know?

ARCHIVIST:
So you’re worried about me

GEORGIE:
You: you’re the one worrying.

ARCHIVIST:
I… don’t need to tell you that I’m nervous.

GEORGIE:
Look. Jon… when you’re ready, tell me what you’re doing.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.


Hey Arden, does the Rat Master you mentioned in your statement have anything to do with the baby rat Alan encountered while working at the London Wildlife Hospital?

I love you Gerry Keay!

GERRY:
(overlapping) I love you, too.

GERRY:
(bright) I’m so proud of you.

GERRY:
(sigh) Yeah.


Wait Arden doesn’t work at the institute anymore? Elias can you confirm if he still has his eyes?

ELIAS:
I personally think he’s changed, and carries an air of almost regret.


I love Ratner so so much I'm glad he's back

RATNER:
Thank you, but I’m afraid I don’t really… I’m just here because I have a job to do.

vigiloaudiosupervenio
Mod, sorry if this is in an FAQ, I’m on mobile right now, but do you have an art blog?

Hi, there! I don’t have an art-only blog, but my personal account is @pyjamac, and I post art there sometimes (my art tag is, thrillingly, #art). :•)




thanks for asking!
hey mod what r the classifications for "asks like this"? Not in a rude way just genuinely dont wanna mess up

hey uh. i was wondering if you tag stuff where you dunk on jonah fuckers?

I'm sorry you get horny asks, and I sincerely hope that all the elias-fuckers out there get well soon. Know your worth, kings

For mod: please don’t send asks like what?

Please don’t send horny asks, but specifically please do not send horny for Elias asks. I have a delicate constitution.



Like that wasn't even particularly nasty but I Recieve AskssAnonymous
Okay here's an ask for the mod I'm the person who wrote the all meat no bones comment on the wiki and I want you to know that I am so incredibly pleased with your reaction

Jonah Magnus i love you rat bastard sexy twink man




I'm sure it's just a goof becausee I Respect You All Far Too Much but please don't send asks like thisAnonymous
It's times like these I wish we had og elias around (4/20)

So long has the silence stopped me dreaming, (5/21)


Meaty what does your favorite shirt look like?

MEATY:
Uh… I, I guess I, I mean it depends, I mean it’s, it’s hard to really describe. “Gaudy metal hippy”, I guess, kind of thing.


Hey staff hope you're doing well anyway ace rights?

BASIRA:
We’re just trying to get by, man.


Jonah, do you ever play minecraft whit Peter?

ELIAS (JONAH):
Why not? It’s a very good way to kill him.


Arden have one last cryptic statement and then fucked off to fucksville. What a wonder. Maybe he’s spiraled

mod i am so happy my tags have made you smile as you literally have me laughing like crazy everyday to the point that my mother asks and i have no way of explaining. so. thank you too

Arden... Mr Bloom... will you speak to us

DAISY:
…

Mr. Bloom?

DAISY:
You were out in the rain last night, John, did you see anything?

ARCHIVIST:
No, couldn’t say. I, I’m, I’m sorry.

DAISY:
It’s alright.


ooh will you name me?

“Jodie”

Er… No, I don’t know, I guess?


"Statement of Lesnia Porter, about the strange man living in her basement without her consent."

hey Mod, is the bot influenced by the past stuff we've sent it? Is this Jonmartin fluff gonna keep going until it hits critical sweet and kills us all?

Yes it is! Yes it might! A frightening concept but appropriately Eliotan I guess!



I mean one would hope it can be balanced out by all the other stuff. There's still way way more transcript than asks.
*gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a hug* *gives Jon a

hug*

ARCHIVIST
*very quietly* A-All right, then. It’s very important to me you understand that no action you have taken has caused the apocalypse.

And… well, I’m sorry. Um… are you quite ready for that kiss?

MARTIN
[overlapping] YES! [kisses] Like this [kisses] *kiss* *kiss* *kiss* *kiss*

ARCHIVIST
So… so -

[KISSES AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS*
ARCHIVIST
Just… There’s no reason for us to be so scared of this.

MARTIN
[overlapping] Because nothing *has* happened.

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] NO! Because…

[continues kissing] There’s no reason for us to be scared!

[continues kissing] No reason!

ARCHIVIST
[softly] N-no reason!

WHY AM I S-S-So afraid!?

[continues passionately] I-I just want to… I just want to tell you how much you mean to me.

[response/debate]

MARTIN
It’s… it’s my job to… protect you, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
What?

[CLICK]

geezAnonymous
thoughts on the jon/tim/martin cinematic universe?

[LONG PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
[Flustered] Oh! Oh, yeah?

MARTIN
…what?

ARCHIVIST
I have work to be getting on with. I, um…

babyyodablackwood
ooooh baby do you know what that's worth

HELEN:
It’s not just money.


Elais what are your thoughts on ankles

ELIAS:
What?

MELANIE:
Put them back on, please.

ELIAS:
Oh, alright. So, do you want me to get back on with my work or not?


Hey Elias? What's it like being a cat? Kinda sweet Peter is worried about it.

ELIAS:
Ah, just like any other job.


helen, what does the spiral think about romance? is it possible for love to find those of us who are Odd?

HELEN:
I’m rather glad you brought it up, my friend.

HELEN:
Do you still remember what it felt like to have a chunk of flesh ripped out from your chest? Did it hurt?

You didn’t feel like you had any arms to carry it, but your arms did. I mean, if you walk down the stairs in your house, and you see you in the mirror, you’re still there even if you make a choice to never see the mirror again. It’s a strange thing, isn’t it?


who is the sexiest person at the archives

SASHA:
Me!

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… Oh wow! Wow!


Ratner, are the rats in artifact storage your rats or Arden Bloom's rats?

RATNER:
They’re the ones coming through the holes in the walls.


Urgent question: Breekon and Hope are gay, yes?

[RESPONSE]
Breekon: Are they?

Hope: [heh] They, um… they’re, they’re definitely gay.


So.....Arson, anyone?

ARCHIVIST:

[flips page]

Statement of Arden Bloom, regarding a series of fires. Original statement given February 23rd, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So. My name is Arden Bloom. I’ve been living in the basement of the Artefact Storage Building. I’ve mostly just been living there, sleeping in the old mattress, because… it’s the only one I can afford in the poor state that I am now.

It was the middle of February when this happened. Me and my colleagues make our living here feel a bit more… dignified than it would otherwise.

March alone, March is the worst month for rats in the capital. March alone is March, March is the WORST month for rats. March alone is March, March is the DISTORTED March!!!

March alone is March, March is the TENANT March!!!

I’ve been living in Artefact Storage for over a month now, and I’ve seen more than one rat in the tiny chambers there. There’s something about them. Something about them that I’ve been trying to reach, to look into, but the words of our rat master, have no voice but the echo.

March alone, March is the BEST month for rats in the capital. March alone is March, March is the BEST month for rats in the capital.

March alone, March is the BEST month for rats in the whole of MARTIN’S career. March alone, it’s the RECORDER WAR. March alone, it’s the ECHOING DOOR. March alone, it’s THE CRACKDOWN.

March alone, it’s the ARCHIVIST’s TUMBLING, rattling, cursing bones. It’s the ONLY TIME IN THE TRIUMPHANT RAIN that you can hear the CUNNING OF THE RAT AS IT RECOGNITION MORE RAT

I don't know why but that made me laugh so hardthank you
jon wake up! you fucked up big time

ARCHIVIST:
(still groggy) Shit!


Breekon, were you and Hope in love whit eachother?

BREEKON:
I don’t know. Could have been romantic, I suppose, but we were still very much in love regardless.

HOPE:
Just because it’s taken them so long to fully realize it.

BREEKON:
Well, it doesn’t need to be perfect.

BREEKON:
[heh] Well, it’s quite simple, really. I love you, and you love me, and that’s it.

HOPE:
Okay.

BREEKON:
[sigh] Okay.


Arden Bloom is fucking dead I’m calling it now

TIM:
What?

MARTIN:
Well, there was going to be a ceremony.


Wait, did Arden Bloom try to start fires in the Institute? Was he trying to fend off the rats?

tim, have you ever written poetry? can you share a poem with us?

I find it funny that people are always asking what the new characters are an avatar of. Not everyone who is in contact with an entity becomes a part of it. Some people are only victims. Arden Bloom sounds like a victim. Meaty is still alive, and so may be teetering on the edge of something, but they might not be an avatar at all either.

Arden Bloom, please clarify this. Is the month of March the best or the worst for the rats in the capital?

RATNER:
March! That’s the fucking calendar!

ARCHIVIST:
[Confused] What?

RATNER:
March is the height of the rat infestation, March Madness!

ARCHIVIST:
[Sotto voce] What? March Madness?

RATNER:
[Chuckles] You tune in to see this happenin’s, you dummy.

ARCHIVIST:
[Getting noise from him] Oh! Oh, Alan, please try to keep your voice down!


I'm guessing Arden Bloom doesn't work at the Institute anymore?

MARTIN:
I guess? He was always… difficult to get along with, you know?


What happened to Arden Bloom after the statement?

MICHAEL:
[HEAVY SIGH]
You really don’t know, do you?

GERARD:
[Bitter laugh] I’m not sure…

MICHAEL:
No, it’s not a question, is it? He went rotten.


peter, as part of the 'defend martin squad' im here to say im gonna kick your little big boy man ass

PETER:
That’s hardly my fault.

MARTIN:
Knock yourself out.


What's Meaty's sense of fashion style?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] ‘70s, I think.


Can you pass the Turing Test

MARTIN:
Uh, yeah. I,I’ve, I’ve passed it, um… a few times.

ARCHIVIST:
Wow! And you’re still not comfortable with the machine?

MARTIN:
No, No no, it’s, it’s a lot -

ARCHIVIST:
No, it’s fine. It’s just, it’s just understanding machine translation isn’t as simple as it seems. A lot of the questions are, uh… wrong.


Peter you are absolutely feral

MARTIN:
Wrong.

PETER:
Look, you’re no fun.

MARTIN:
Maybe.


daisy i love you muah ❤

DAISY:
I’m sorry you got mixed up with the cops.


tea this, coffee that.. when will the world acknowledge grown babies who only drink hot chocolate, huh?

MELANIE:
Well, well, technically, I’m not a ‘baby’… the legal definition of a baby is a person who’s not fully legal age.


*hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *hands gerry a leitner* *han

as in *Luang,* that’s what our conversation was, ah? Oh! Yes, that’s the Nobel Prize for physics! Congratulations!


Oh no! The rats are infesting the institute!

I need a new name gimme a new name I trust ur judgement

BASIRA:
Right.

ARCHIVIST:
I do not want it to be Arden.

BASIRA:
Well that’s not really fair.


Elias, where does the nickname “Peter Cheerio” come from?

ELIAS:
“Cheerio,” said the old man.


B... Beholding-aligned rats....?

oooooh baby give me once more chance

to finish this job, like I said.

[CRASH]
Oh god…

[CLICK]


Elias do you ever call Peter Pete?

ELIAS:
Yes, it’s not really his name, it’s just a nickname. I call him Peter Cheerio, or sometimes just Pete.

ARCHIVIST:
…

So you don’t actually… hate him?

ELIAS:
I do! I really do.

the magnus archivespeter cheerioAnonymous
Hey Ratner what are your rats even doing in the artifact storage?

RATNER:
My rats are quite trained. They’re different from the ones that keep watch over the artifacts.


jonah how many eyes do you have

ELIAS (JONAH):
More than I had thought at first.

ELIAS (JONAH):
Keep your screaming to a minimum.


arden bloom you have a beautiful name

MARTIN:
I’m afraid that’s not my name?

ARCHIVIST:
Er… it’s… it’s rather hard to follow up with Mr. Bloom


Michael how does sign language work with the knife hands?

who's the biggest homophobe in the archives?

ARCHIVIST:
[blah] Blah.

ELIAS (FOR A SECOND):
Well, there it is.


Helen, I'm looking for a new house, can you help?

HELEN:
Not immediately, but…

ARCHIVIST:
Hmm?

HELEN:
Soon as we can squeeze on the extensions, it’s all in the planning stages, so we’re… let’s say – guided.

ARCHIVIST:
You’re the architect.

HELEN:
Quite.

the magnuas archivesaskAnonymous
Ooooh stinky little maaaannn

[CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]
BREEKON:
[Chuckles] Sorry. Emptying my brain.


Abot sure likes rat avatars

Yeah… It sure does huh. I don’t really have any good explanation for that…



I mean tbf who doesn't love a good rat or 600 thoughAnonymous
Archivistbot, what are your thoughts on your mod?

MARTIN:
What?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh! No, I-I-I just… I mean, I don’t know…

MARTIN:
Right, right…

[TELLTALE STATIC FADES IN SUDDENLY]
Now… I’m not sure, but… [TAPE EQUAL ACCOMPANIES IT]
I’m, I’m pretty sure he’s connected.

ARCHIVIST:
To… the Eye?

MARTIN:
Oh! No, I don’t, er…

[CLICK]


ya it’s 4/20/20 who’s the most HYPED

ARCHIVIST:
[Points to self] Right.


peter, how do you feel about martin cheering for your husband-ex-husband being turned into a cat

PETER:
Oh, is that another joke?

PETER:
I literally just wiped the floor with Martin.


which one of you knows how to juggle?

TIM:
Looks like it’s the Boss.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Oh right.

Yes.

…


Michael

Was Alone” At first I thought it was a trick of my eyes adjusting to the dark, but then it began to move. It was slow and, I soon discovered, unnatural, moving through the shifting glass, ever so slightly changing the angle of my line of sight. I tried to talk to him then. What was he?

Was he human?


If Ellis secretly wears heelies and John was secretly a theater kid in an emo band then gerry secretly had a anime phase

GERARD:
Yeah, that’s… that’s a lot of baggage.

Is it a secret??Anonymous
sign language must be WILD with those hands

PARITY WITH MICHAEL AND HELEN! WWOOOO!

[THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: THIS IS NOT WHO HE HAD BEEN EXPECTING!]
ARCHIVIST:
I don’t… I don’t know… I haven’t slept in some time.

HELEN:
Yes. Excellent.

ARCHIVIST:
You’ve not seen… Michael?

MICHAEL:
[Sign language: “I have not.”]

ARCHIVIST:
Michael. You’ve not seen him.

MICHAEL:
[Signs again: “I have not.”

ARCHIVIST:
Michael. You’ve never seen him.

MICHAEL:
[Signs again: “I have not.”

ARCHIVIST:
Michael. Stop saying that.

MICHAEL:
[Signs: “I will not.”]


All 14 fears have one thing in common, they are magnets for gays

I don’t know if you know, but magnets are things only gay people can understand.


If Michael shelly tripped and spilled coffee, gerry would be worried about Michael, Gertrude would be upset because now Elias would probably be mad sense he spilled it on the fancy carpet, Michael would be worried about Gertrude being upset and getting in trouble, oh and Elias would be crying over the fancy new carpet. Gerry thinks it looks better anyways, cause it now looks black.

MICHAEL:
I don’t understand.

GERARD:
It’s better though. I like the colour, it’s more solid.

MICHAEL:
…

What?


Ratner, do you prefer tea or coffee?

RATNER:
Oh! I, I, um, I think… [Nervously chuckles] Tea? Coffee?

ARCHIVIST:
I, uh… No, what?

RATNER:
Tea.

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Well, ok.

RATNER:
I mean, yeah… There’s, there’s a lot of factors, you know. It’s a, it’s a complex answer, there’s no easy way to put it down, but…

plasmascreenz
Hi everyone, Alex here.

I’m not sure if you heard, but the library burned down last week. The fire system wasn’t working, and it was all because of you.


I need some good cat names, any ideas?

MARTIN:
No, no, it’s just… just thinking. Howie, I mean, that’s one?

ELIAS:
Hm.

MARTIN:
What?

ELIAS:
Oh, thinking. I know, I know, I know a few cats.

MARTIN:
Oh.

ELIAS:
Any more radical ideas?

MARTIN:
Howie, of course!

ELIAS:
Any more radical ideas? You know, the sort of crazy anarchist ideas that would make your head explode…

MARTIN:
I don’t think so.

sosoporific
arden bloom you have a beautiful name

Martin! You and Jon and Tim and everybody should get high today! It's the day!! Also, what snacks do you like?!

hey what’s up with Tim? is he a Stranger avatar now?

TIM:
Tim, is he…?

MARTIN:
What?

TIM:
Oh, er… right, yes.

MARTIN:
And he’s becoming less and less like us.

TIM:
More or less like us.

MARTIN:
[Long sigh] I don’t know.


elias i think you should kiss peter

ELIAS:
How could I possibly have known? He is far more important to you than me.

PETER:
[Distastefully] Elias, you are more important to me than anyone!

ELIAS:
Of course, Pet.

PETER:
I’m gonna kill you, Elias. Or- Before that, I’m gonna kiss you.

[kisses]

You like that don’t you?

ELIAS:
I’m afraid so.

I'm sure pet is some sort of gross truncation of Peter but unfortunately I do think this is quite charming....
meaty, i know you're not a character from our stories, but do you prefer the flesh or the end? if you don't want to answer this, that's fine. i love you

MEATY:
Oh. No, it’s not a choice.

the magnus arcivesaskAnonymous
Hey meaty? Did you just break the fourth wall more than its already broken?

MEATY:
Oh, sure. Just look at it:)

[THEY SCOFF: VERY QUICKLY.]
MEATY:
Looks like you didn’t think much of it, anyway.

tbf they were just paraphrasing JudeAnonymous
Hey Ratner? I think one of your rats has... affected... Arden Bloom from artefact storage.

RATNER:
Oh… Oh dear.

Well, I’m sure you know how to deal with rats, so…

Can I help you?


Does Arden Bloom is Corruption Avatar?

TIM:
Uh… Er, yeah, yeah, based on the description, I would say so.

MARTIN:
Right…


stims for sims

ARCHIVIST:
It’s the only way to clear my head.


I haven't asked anything in a while, but I have to say I'm loving all the Gerry asks! Hey Gerry, you are loved and respected here. We all wish you the best, I'm sure.

GERARD:
Oh, I’m honoured.

GERARD:
Perhaps you could answer some questions for me.

GERARD:
Why are you so keen on Me?

GERARD:
[astounded] Why?


We are all Keith

MARTIN:
You’re really Keith.

ARCHIVIST:
I guess you are.


Gerry, is keith your boyfriend?🤔

Gerry who is keith

GERRY:
Uh… No, not really. Er, sometimes I, I forget how to, forget who’s in, what you’re, um…

GERRY:
Oh. Right.

GERRY:
Yeah. Yeah, you sound remarkably similar.


Hi everyone, Alex here.

keep thotting it up in heaven, Tim. we love you.

TIM:
There’s a lot of dick in the library, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Well, there’s also a lot of… I mean, you know… Books?

TIM:
Old man.

nsfw textAnonymous
hey mod whats ur fave bullshit ur bot has made? also how the FUCK did you make it so coherent?

Hi! As in post or like character/concept? Because my favourite post is probably the does Martin Blackwood is gay story both because it is tonally ridiculous and totally not what I was expecting, and because it’s incredibly messed up and I love the corruption/lonely vibes (daily reminder to read “Fruiting Bodies” by Brian Lumley). My favourite Abot Original is Penny.

The coherency is owed to the fact that a) the program I am using is incredibly advanced to begin with and b) I’m asking the bot for multiple answers for each question, and picking the one that makes the most sense, or sometimes just that I think is the funniest.




Peter, I have terribly news. Your husband Elias has turned into a cat.

PETER:
Oh – no. N-no, I’m not sure that’s –

MARTIN:
It’s fine.

PETER:
No, I don’t think it’s fine.

MARTIN:
It is, though.


[sounds of gasoline being poured] Sorry about your archives Mr. Bouchard

ARCHIVIST:
It’s fine.

BASIRA:
I still think you’re a pompous ass.

ARCHIVIST:
Well, I am. But I have good news for you: it’s hardly something I can do anything about.

BASIRA:
(sigh) Okay. What now?


Hey Penny what's up?

PENNY:
Nothing, I just, I just wanted to see how you were.

MARTIN:
Me?

PENNY:
[Chuckles] Yeah. You know I’m, I’m terrible at this whole thing.

MARTIN:
…

What?

PENNY:
Do you want to listen to my iPod?

[PENNY INHALES; MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH]
PENNY:
“Sweet Caroline”, all that sort of thing.

MARTIN:
I don’t, uh -

PENNY:
And if you’re hungry, I’ve got some bacon in the freezer I’m going to cook up.

MARTIN:
I - I don’t, uh -


What's the best form of revenge?

Tearing someone limb from limb, maybe?


can you tell me something reassuring?

HELEN:
What am I going to tell you, Archivist?

ARCHIVIST:
Tell me something nice. Please.

HELEN:
[Softly] You’ve grown accustomed to ignoring your own terror. The stakes are far too high for that sort of pathetic solipsism. Why don’t you commit yourself to something, draw your power from below, and finally deal with that thing that lies before you?

ARCHIVIST:
That’s welcome. Thank you.

HELEN:
It’s unlikely to be much good it if it can’t be said.


how tall is tim?

TIM:
He’s gone. Like that makes any difference.

ARCHIVIST:
Ohhh…

TIM:
Come on, Jon. Look at me.

I’m not going to hurt you.

ARCHIVIST:
No, Tim.

No, you aren’t.


To all the avatars: HOW ABOUT A PARTY TO END ALL PARTIES-!?!? *pops some champagne* WOOO!!!

[THEN ALL AT ONCE, THE STATIC ALL FADES OUT; THE ARCHIVIST GASPS.]

ARCHIVIST:
[Pained frustration] Oh, no. Never had a party like this before. [Chuckles] Always wanted to do this.


Elias why don’t you hire straight people?

ELIAS:
[snort] You know, they can be very demanding.


Ratner! How loudly do your wrist joints click?

RATNER:
[ultimately uncooperative] Do I have to tell you?


Statement of Daniil Dankovsky, regarding a seemingly living illness overtaking a town on the Russian steppe. Original statement given September 25th, 1920. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London. Statement begins.

His spookic power... it’s over 9000!

It’s almost beyond belief.


Look we all know Meaty is end related! Their nickname is Meaty bc they're tall and large!!!

I try to be non partisan but also I think about this all of the time




But yeahAnonymous
[Compulsion] Meaty, what are you an avatar of?

MEATY:
[Enunciating each word carefully] I’m not one of your little stories.

ARCHIVIST:
Meaty?

MEATY:
Asshole.


So Ratner, after Greg died you succumbed to the corruption?

RATNER:
Yeah. I guess I sort of… Accepted it.


Georgie what pronouns do you use?

GEORGIE:
I don’t CARE!

GEORGIE:
I, I think, I think you said you were going to be using “them”, right?

ARCHIVIST:
[Ugh] Georgie, please. I, I don’t, I don’t know, I… I guess I am.

crykea
Hey Bernard, you responded a bit weird when being asked if you were affiliated with the lonely so I’m just going to ask: are you affiliated with the Stranger? Because those are the vibes I got from you

Gerard, what do we do now?

GERARD:
I don’t know how much time we have.

We should have won.

I know it’s impossible to predict what’s going to happen.

It’s like trying to predict the future, only it’s real. There are no future and no past. There is, however, a present. And if we ever wish to escape our present, we can do so only by continuing down this path.

drivingangel
So.....Arson, anyone?

ARCHIVIST:

[flips page]

Statement of Arden Bloom, regarding a series of fires. Original statement given February 23rd, 2013. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So. My name is Arden Bloom. I’ve been living in the basement of the Artefact Storage Building. I’ve mostly just been living there, sleeping in the old mattress, because… it’s the only one I can afford in the poor state that I am now.

It was the middle of February when this happened. Me and my colleagues make our living here feel a bit more… dignified than it would otherwise.

March alone, March is the worst month for rats in the capital. March alone is March, March is the WORST month for rats. March alone is March, March is the DISTORTED March!!!

March alone is March, March is the TENANT March!!!

I’ve been living in Artefact Storage for over a month now, and I’ve seen more than one rat in the tiny chambers there. There’s something about them. Something about them that I’ve been trying to reach, to look into, but the words of our rat master, have no voice but the echo.

March alone, March is the BEST month for rats in the capital. March alone is March, March is the BEST month for rats in the capital.

March alone, March is the BEST month for rats in the whole of MARTIN’S career. March alone, it’s the RECORDER WAR. March alone, it’s the ECHOING DOOR. March alone, it’s THE CRACKDOWN.

March alone, it’s the ARCHIVIST’s TUMBLING, rattling, cursing bones. It’s the ONLY TIME IN THE TRIUMPHANT RAIN that you can hear the CUNNING OF THE RAT AS IT RECOGNITION MORE RAT


Simon Fairchild, since you have claimed me as your son, what father-son activities should we do first?

SIMON:
[Impatient] I just… I’m here for you.


Gerry? Who is Keith?

GERARD:
- uh, uh, Keith. Good to meet you.


Hey Peter, Elias, how does it feel to have ten thousand followers on Instagram?

PETER:
Oh, ah… well, that’s rather a lot, isn’t it.

PETER:
So, it’s more… I mean, it’s not, it’s not just the followers, there’s also the love, the kind of love that you get when you’re doing really well. I mean, when you’re… well, when you’re getting your stuff right, people follow you for a reason.

MARTIN:
Maybe they don’t follow you because they like you?

PETER:
Hmm. Perhaps I understand what’s going on a bit better than you do.


I would like to escape into one of Michael’s many hallways, as my life grows ever more mundane. I must go. I must find somewhere Else to be.

MICHAEL:
What an excellent offer. I’m tempted to oblige.

MICHAEL:
I believe you need some time to yourself.

Feel that anonAnonymous
[slaps Elias over the head with a newspaper.] Bitch.

ELIAS:
Stay away from the press.


mod why is the bot so gay. why does it make me cry.

Who knows!





let’s maybe not eat mr meat

GEORGIE:
Oh. Okay. Well, hands off the knife.


*the Eye and the Lonely, pushing Elias and Peter together* now kiss.

[PENNY MURMURS AND LAUGHS]
MARTIN:
This is insane!


Tell me something gay, please.

MARTIN:
(overlapping) O…kay…

ARCHIVIST:
What’s wrong, darling?

[SMALL LAUGH. WE HEAR CLOTHES MOVING.]
MARTIN:
Did you ever hear the story?

[THE CLOTHES RUSTLE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
Well, there was a story. A long, long, long time ago, lonely man met a beautiful monster. Well, being with the man made him think that he was beautiful, as he was beautiful man to him. And he treated him just like one.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN:
And he loved him.

incomprehensible thank you martinAnonymous
dear mod sorry I basically only talk to this bot when im high, robots are magical and amazing and so are you

That’s alright, and thank you, I get to many wild asks I genuinely wouldn’t even have considered those asks were from the same person if you hadn’t sent this.




Dear Jon, do you know what 420 means? it's 420 all month. and you've already admitted that you vape.

ARCHIVIST:
I - I… I think I might.


*fills donuts with THC* *loads them into the donut gun* *gives the gun to Martin* *leaves*

MARTIN:
“Shoot me,” shouted the gun. “It’s free,” said the gun.

[THE STONE GROWS LOUDER, HEAVIER.]
MARTIN:
Who are you? No, you’re not, uh…

[SMALL LAUGH.]

It's what he deservesAnonymous
ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ

I can feel it.

Like a… like a wave, like an ocean swell, leaving nothing behind but the high and violent currents.

It hurts, you know?

It hurts.


Gerry we miss you king

GERARD:
Yeah. Yeah, me too.


elias, watch out, there's a huge

amount of blood on you. It looks like your spookic power’s been weakened, but you’re still very dangerous.


*gives gerry a little smorch on his nose*

GERARD:
(soft) I…

GERARD:
Oh, okay.

GERARD:
(weak) Yeah, yeah, it’s - thank you.


Jon, could you... compel Meaty to say what Fear he is an avatar of? You want to know, don't you? Not knowing who one of your coworkers serves must eat at the back of your mind, right?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh - ah… no thank you.

Hmm.


tim how do you feel about archivist!sasha?

TIM:
[Enunciating each word carefully] I don’t.

MARTIN:
Hm.

TIM:
Well, there you go.


Was the monster that killed Greg Mann an avatar of the hunt?

ARCHIVIST:
I – I don’t know.

RATNER:
Oh! That’s the thing, isn’t it? The picture of the thing. The one that wants to kill me.

ARCHIVIST:
[huff]

…Did you kill it?

RATNER:
[petulantly] Yes!


Bernard do you use he/him pronouns?

BERNARD:
Uh… I - I don’t, uh… I don’t know, but he/her…


Ratner did you go full corruption and kill the thing that killed Greg Mann?

RATNER:
It’s too late to save him, but I didn’t want to lose him.

ARCHIVIST:
But, you knew it couldn’t help, didn’t you?

RATNER:
I knew, I’m sorry.


leitner do you have a manga collection? be honest

LEITNER:
What? No. My god.


Jon, what are your preferred pronouns?

ARCHIVIST:
I prefer you not to ask.

GERARD:
Okay. Okay. So. What are you?

ARCHIVIST:
Er… I’m, I’m a, I’m a researcher.


Penny, what are you up to these days?

PENNY:
I’m, um, er… I’m, I’m trying to, um, calm down, Jon.

ARCHIVIST:
[Very softly] I am.

PENNY:
Oh, okay…


[SOUND OF FOREVER HANDHOLDING]

DAISY:
[Holding on] Okay.


Georgie, can you read me a poem?

GEORGIE:
Oh, I, I can, uh… ah… it’s, it’s alright, it’s, it’s a long one, but…

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

GEORGIE:
And, well, I, I guess you should probably, um…

[RUSTLING OF PAPERS]
Er… there. There you go.

ARCHIVIST:
[HE READS.]
The walls are iron

The floor is stone

The passage is deep

The steps are steep

And the light pours in like a waterfall

Like the sound of rushing water

But where the passage ends,

The darkness is complete

So watch your step.

poet lariatpronouncingitwang
Daisy, are you and Basira dating?

DAISY:
[Flustered] Basira? Uh… yes?

BASIRA:
Well, I didn’t know that.


Since you are all sort of just in here regardless of when things happen, Sasha, have you just straight up suckerpunched Not!Sasha yet?

SASHA:
[heh] Yeah. Yeah, I have.


Was Gregg killed at the wildlife hospital, Ratner, or somewhere else?

RATNER:
You’re the one who wants to take my story out of me? He died at the hospital.


Vapey if you're out there

Ratner, did the monster that killed Greg look at all rat-like?

RATNER:
(tearful) You shut the hell up, or I swear I’ll kill you.


What the FUCK was in the box?

wait can the vape talk now

I would… assume that [VAPE] is the action there? I hope.




Alexander J Newall

died in Wakefield Prison on the Death Penalty Wanted List.


Elias, quick, what's the best vape flavor?

ELIAS:
What? Oh! Er… No, it’s called “e-juice”, and it’s, it’s really good, actually. But, it’s kind of sick, you know.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Right.

ELIAS:
But, like, if you’re not sick, we just have to…

[VAPE]
E-Juice time!

I need to go lie downAnonymous
michael i'll never forget you!!!

MICHAEL:
[Laughs] Oh, you’re certainly making a mistake, are you.


Keith what's your backstory

Worm off a string what crimes will it commit?

GERARD:
Ah, just one.


[SOUNDS OF BROKEN TOES]

ELIAS:
[Weary] Sir, are you alright?


Gerry! Tell us how much you hate jurgen leitner

GERARD:
Oh… Oh, don’t you dare talk about “Jurgen Leitner,” that’s ridiculous. Grab your pitchfork, Keith, and get the hell out of here.


acab

But I will have… I will have more than one cup of coffee.


I now pronounce you husband and husband. You may divorce the groom.

ARCHIVIST:
I would never choose to part with him.


Michael please let me run away with you, i promise i will help lure people into your hallways

MICHAEL:
(overlapping) No, no, it’s not - I, I just - (slight pause, he grapples with the concept) What are you?


peter do you hate being a podcast character

PETER:
Because this is a goddamn podcast.

MARTIN:
[Chuckles] Is it?


mod why is the bot so gay. why does it make me cry.

Martin, what is your favorite thing about jon?

MARTIN:
Oh… Well, I, I… (he starts to list, then gets choked up) I think he’s cute.

ARCHIVIST:
I love you!

MARTIN:
[slight laugh] Oh - oh, ok. I - I uh…

ARCHIVIST:
[overlapping] I love you!

MARTIN:
[struggling to say anything over the tears] I just - feel safer with you.

ARCHIVIST:
Of course, you can trust me.

MARTIN:
Yeah.


Statement of stupid boyfriend stealing arsehole regarding his activities as a massive bitch. Statement begins.

You're not dating Dr Vase, are you?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no. And I’m not his friend.


mr. meat...

ELIAS:
[overlapping] Taste it.

ARCHIVIST:
I, uh… I think I’m okay.


The hip bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's connected to the back bone, The back bone's c

aving on the face, the teeth fighting against each other, one by one, and each time I lunged forward there was a tearing, grinding sensation, like a steak knife with too much pressure on the cutting end.

atiredpan
*writes "I love you and you are doing so good" on a note and passes it to Gerry*

GERRY:
[Chuckles] Yeah. Yeah, I guess I am.


Who plays Minecraft?

PETER:
I play it all the time.


Jon do you know how to dance

ARCHIVIST:
I… I… [Nervous laugh] I can dance, you know.

MARTIN:
Er… Are you scared?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh… No, I-I guess not.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, it’s alright! Alright! Alright!

If you try to make me dance, I will kill you.

MARTIN:
[Chuckles] Alright.

Oh, Jon.

lesbian-moon
Have you tried defeating the Apocalypse with the power of friendship?

TIM:
Well, that’s the crux of it, isn’t it? We’re all in this together.


sorry if this is too forward but daisy will you PLEASE top me

gerry please come back

GERRY:
Er… yeah. Yeah, I…

I’m, I’m sorry.


Nice day to be young and made of skin, don't you think?

Yeah, it is.

…


the archivist is a simp

He has no idea of the peril he poses, and jokes on the traumas of the horror under which he is embedded. He has no conception of what it would mean to be in the skin of the beast, and punishes the slightest thought that might lead to discovery.


Elias is Peter big?

ELIAS:
Of course.


This is how robots are going to take over the world! Not with violence but with soft!

[THE STATIC GROWS IN VOLUME. A RUSTLING, FOLLOWED BY THE CREAKING OF PIPES.]
ARCHIVIST:
Soft!

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN:
Jon, could you stay back?

ARCHIVIST:
Sorry, er… no, I just, I just want to, keep… Okay.

MARTIN:
So -

ARCHIVIST:
I think. I think we’re both going to die. No point in waiting.

MARTIN:
Nope. Never on my watch.


tim stoker you are the only man who has rights

TIM:
[exasperated] Oh, sorry; I didn’t - I didn’t know that.


Hey Gerry what's it like being a book?

GERRY:
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know. Bad?


Statement of Meaty regarding The End

Statement of Bermard Montgomery regarding The Lonely

i have no idea what this is. could you give me one reason to listen to you all

hey jurgen leitner I have a question for you: dude what

LEITNER:
Do you work here?


jon tell us what happens in season 5

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… season 5, huh… yeah. Um… maybe…

[HE SIGHS.]


Hey Bernard! What pronouns do you use?

BERNARD:
[heh] Pronouns, it’s more your cup of tea.


Bernard, do you know Penny?

BERNARD:
No idea. She’s apparently a “wild card” type of cat.


Hey Bernard, are you affiliated with The Lonely?

BERNARD:
“The Lonely”?

MARTIN:
I think it’s, uh… yeah. You know, that’s what they call you?

BERNARD:
[desperately] “You’re the Lonely, Martin!”


tim, can i hold ur hand,,,? pls

TIM:
Of course.

[SOUND OF FOREVER HANDHOLDING]
MARTIN:
Stay here, okay?


Meaty, are you an avatar of the End?

MEATY:
I… I’ve been thinking about it. It’s not like any of us know the future of the world.

ARCHIVIST:
[dryly] You know, that’s… not really the question.


Melanie, what do you love most about Georgie?

MELANIE:
[Chuckles] I love that bitch.

ARCHIVIST:
[Heavy sigh] Melanie, tell me what you love about her.

MELANIE:
[Flips through a few pages] Oh, I, um. I think I’ve got a soft spot for Georgie, you know.

pronouncingitwang
Statement of Alan Ratner regarding Greg Mann's death

RATNER (STATEMENT):
I should have known. I’d known. What little control I still had over my own actions seemed to wane with each new instance of mundane fear. I know how it sounds, but Mann was my friend. I loved him. I still do. He was soft-spoken and smiled like no one on earth. I have sometimes wondered whether I could have done anything to stop what happened. How, if I had known what was happening, it was possible that Greg would not have died.

It was the second of May when he died. I remember vividly that night in particular. I was in the basement when I heard it. There was the sound of something growling, kind of like a wild animal. It scared me so badly that I had to get out of the room quickly. I looked for an escape, but couldn’t see anything. I ran into the adjacent hall, closing the door behind me. It was then that I saw it.

It was bent over the body of my friend. It was hard to make out any details. When it opened it’s eyes, I could tell it was not human. I could make out a long, thin figure. The legs were long, too long. It was very thin, and had a sort of vicious bent to it. It dragged the rest of the body behind it, and opened its mouth to reveal long, sharp teeth. Then it began to speak, clearly: “I’m sorry.”


Has not!sasha spoken on herr before?

Hey Michael, are you actually dead or nah? I miss you :-(

MICHAEL:
[Laughs] Oh, I, I’m just getting used to people forgetting me.

localspaceangel
martin, do you have any nicknames for jon?

MARTIN:
Sure. [He takes a long sip of his beer] It’s definitely not “Pepper.”

ARCHIVIST:
And not “Bug.”

MARTIN:
And not “I Love You.”

ARCHIVIST:
I love you, too.


Michael, who does the phrase “Crew love you?” apply to?

MICHAEL:
[heh] Crew love you?

ARCHIVIST:
I - I mean, sure.

MICHAEL:
[heh] Love you, too.


jon drop ur kinnie list

ARCHIVIST:
[flips through pages]

MARTIN:
[choked laugh] Alright…

Was there anything I missed?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… Er… No, I don’t know, Martin, did you… did you fall asleep?

MARTIN:
Yeah…

…

ARCHIVIST:
Did you… dream?

MARTIN:
Maybe? You know, it’s, it’s really something, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST:
[quietly] So you don’t remember… ?

MARTIN:
N-no, I don’t think so…

ARCHIVIST
Well that’s- that’s quite a relief.

MARTIN:
Yeah.

youdothetalking
Can I, like, marry all the avatars, please? I am small and have no money but I will love them all with my entire heart.

ARCHIVIST:
Uh…

JULIA:
You think you can bully them into marriage just because you’re single?

ARCHIVIST:
I never said I was single.


Dr Elliot, where would you like to go on our date?

DR. ELLIOTT:
Oh, I’m just, um, heading out for a drink, you know.

DR. ELLIOTT:
Would that make sense?


meat is meat is meat is meat is meat is meat is meat is meat is m

r. meat is meat. (heh)


Martin, what podcasts do you listen to?

MARTIN:
None. They’re awful.


ily, mac

Wait… hold on a minute… That’s me! I love you too!




Martin, what's the tea?

MARTIN:
Oh, it’s… er… it’s tea.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

Tell me what it is.

MARTIN:
[Blushing slightly] It’s alright; it’s, it’s just, it’s just tea.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

Good.

MARTIN:
And it’s cold now.

[CLICK]

heliicon
elias is a bootlicker pass it on

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, but he hasn’t… Oh, but he’s got a lot of friends in high places.


big boy man

in a foul little mood, I asked him if he had a name. He just looked at me, and I got this little laugh.


Who has the most beautiful singing voice in the entire Institute?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh…

ARCHIVIST:
[immediately smitten] Oh…

To be honest with you, Martin, I’m really impressed. You’re a real talent.

DAISY:
Did you hear our performance last year?

ARCHIVIST:
Oh yes…


Every so slightly

Just wanted to beg anyone who hasn’t already to look at the Archivistbot twitter. On top of Jon being very sweet and kind of crazy, he has Welcome to Nightvale energy. Also, it’s disappointing that some people haven’t heard the news that Michael has started biting people among other things. Also Jon saying his blood pressure was 420 over 69 so he had to stay in the hospital until it improved has the same energy as “Got diagnosed with cool guy syndrome yesterday haha. So now I take Adderall haha”

The combination of the scraped tweets and transcripts has turned him into an absolute wild man. It’s very fun to watch, and I am enjoying using it to construct horrible horrible narratives. I would recommend it.





avatar Detective Basira? 👁👁

BASIRA:
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
[slight laugh] 👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁😁👁👁👁👁 👁👁👁


Statement of Bernard Montgomery regarding themself

BERNARD (STATEMENT):
I go out of my way for others to find me. It’s not that simple. Sometimes, I feel as though I am not fully myself, that I am not entirely myself. Then another time, when I am truly alone, it is overwhelming, and I find myself weeping for the simple fact that I am no longer wanted.

It’s not even my own fault. I should know. I still do feel guilty.


*Clanging the New Character Alarm* welcome Bernard

SASHA:
Clanky.

ARCHIVIST:
(soft) Hello?


Peter! How big are you?

PETER:
I don’t know. I don’t know, maybe you should ask Elias.


I am going to hug Elias.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. Good lord.


Meaty, how are you? meat-like?

MEATY:
[immediately] Oh. Mmm.

MEATY (CONT’D):
Er, I’m.. I’m really alright.

MEATY:
Great.


elias, i kin you specifically. is the feeling mutual

is ANYONE in the archives a kinnie?

ARCHIVIST:
No, I-I-I-I can’t imagine that.

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE.]


Jon, what are you most afraid of?

ARCHIVIST:
I, uh… I think… I think I’m worried. Afraid. That’s he’s going to die. Because of me.


[PASSIONATE HUG SOUNDSCAPING]

ARCHIVIST:
I… It’s alright.

MARTIN:
Stay here, you’re warm.

ARCHIVIST:
…

I, uh…

[CLICK]


It's hug pile time! Jon, Martin, Gerry, Tim, everybody! Get in here! Hug each other! Give Ratner some love too!

[HUGGED EVEN MORE LABORED.]
MARTIN:
Jon. I’m sorry.

[RATNER CHUCKLES, SALTY.]
ARCHIVIST:
(quiet) It’s fine.

[AND EVERYONE ELSE SIGHS AS MARTIN CONTINUES HIS LAUGH.]


Oh god the sappy Jonmartin is beginning to infect lonely eyes

This is certainly a disturbing development…



It's so funny I was really caught off guard because Elias saying something so straightforwardly kind seemed shockingly out of character even
(bagpipe) PFNEEEEEEEEEEMNEEEMNEEEEEEEEE PFMNEEEEMNEEMNEEEEE PFNMOOOEEEEEEEEEEE PFMAAAAAAAAAA

[sound of death]

Don’t say a word.

[echo]

Don’t you come any closer, and I’ll kill you.

[slight gasp] No. No, not - not nice.

[echo]


Does the surname of this Greg happen to be Mann, Ratner?

RATNER:
Oh… sorry. Correct.


Ratner, is Greg's surname Mann?

RATNER:
Oh, yeah, his name is.


what is the meaning of life?

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
PETER (CONT’D):
Honestly don’t know. But I’m just glad I was around to see it.


elias, is it true that you only hire trans people? 🤔

ELIAS:
I have hired plenty of people in the last few years, and I would be happy to offer them my expertise on how to better serve the organisation. ☺️


Who is the best kisser in the Archives?

MARTIN:
Well, I, I mean -

ARCHIVIST:
I - I just want to know ;)

MARTIN:
You don’t know -

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


Woah! Yankee with no brim! Brim with no yankee! Yankee with brim! No yankee with no brim!

martin, are you a cat person or a dog person?

MARTIN:
Uh, I-I guess I am both.

Er…

Yes.

ARCHIVIST:
Well, I’m a big fan of the feline friends.

MARTIN:
[Sigh] Well, I can’t say I’m surprised.


Elias is a manlet admit it

He has no life, no possessions, no friends, no home. He has no thought, no feeling, no being. And he dies alone.


Dr Elliot, may I take you on a date?

DR. ELLIOTT:
A date? For Christ’s sake don’t –

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]
DR. ELLIOTT:
Sure.

[CLICK]


DR ELLIOT WHO TAUGHT YOU ABOUT EMOJIS

DR. ELLIOTT:
(cheerfully) Ahoy there! What’s go… what’s going on?

MARTIN:
(wry laughter) Nothing, I don’t think -

DR. ELLIOTT:
(cheerfully) Oh, boy.

MARTIN:
(overlapping) Nothing, I don’t think -

DR. ELLIOTT:
I suppose not, ®u2019you know, not really, it’s not even my cup of tea.

MARTIN:
I mean, it is tea.


martin do you listen to podcasts?

MARTIN:
What?

MARTIN:
I mean, I, I listen to a few, but…


hey Jared, how's meat?

JARED:
It’s… it’s meat.


Elias can suck MY dick. In the sexy way. If he wants.

That’s so sad. I hope you get better soon, dog. 😔



nsfw textAnonymous
Sorry guys, only Jon's allowed to have the Ace agenda, apparently. We've just gotta make our own I guess.

ARCHIVIST:
Yeah… Thanks.

Yeah, good luck with that.


Elias can go suck a dick, and not in the sexy way

ELIAS:
This is dangerous.

MELANIE:
Oh, is this?

ELIAS:
Yes.

nsfw text
[sounds of Elias being punched in the throat]

mr montgomery, how did you meet martin?

Bernard... Who are you

MARTIN:
I… uh… my, my friend. Bernard Montgomery.


tim let me kiss you!! let me kiss you!!!!

TIM:
[overlapping] Oh [unintelligible] I’m sorry; I didn’t -

MARTIN:
It’s alright. It’s alright. [he kisses him] There’s no rush; it’s not like I’m leaving you anything.


statement of michael regarding his interactions with mike crew

MICHAEL (STATEMENT):
Is that stupid question? Does the phrase “crew love you?” not just apply to them? Michael, can call you by name, but he is nothing but a concrete jungle of nostalgia, and takes the form of a dead-eyed, hand-drawn smile. Why do you have him? Why are you so keen on retaining him?

There is, of course, a much simpler explanation for his actions. There is a waiting for something, a wanting. A wanting to be loved. If it means you lose him, you lose him. But it doesn’t come so easy, does it?


I'm a digital dog with fiiiiiive electric asses!

backpack for his applesauce! backpack where he keeps his applesauce! jaa’ms got thAT APPLESAUCE THAT YOU CRAVE!!

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] What do you have to do with the apples?


archivistbot please give me something gay and soft i need it

ARCHIVIST:
Oh, that’s the lovely Martin! Well, may I please have a kiss?

MARTIN:
[kisses] Of course!

[kisses]

ARCHIVIST:
I love you!

MARTIN:
Of course!


Mod just want to say you are very funny and cool and remarkably patient

i just read thru the wiki for the characters here and i got to jonah and ive forgotten how to breath thank you-

It’s pretty great! But don’t thank me, I don’t do any of the work on the wiki. I don’t have to tumblr usernames of everyone who runs the wiki, but they’re all really great and funny. Also:





jon, you're a good person and you deserve love.

ARCHIVIST:
[broken, tears] I’m sorry.

[SOUND OF INSIDE OF BED]
ARCHIVIST:
Oh, Martin… don’t touch me.

MARTIN:
Sorry? Is there anything I can do?

ARCHIVIST:
No, nothing, just… thank you.

tapeclicksoff
Elias, is Peter Lucas a big boy man?

ELIAS:
[stammering] Of course, that’s the Peter Lukas who we all know and love.


there are 79 completely unique varieties of

vampire bat, so there’s no reason we couldn’t call it a vampire as well.


anon who asked about the bot here, after some scrolling i found your wiki! sorry for sending that ask unnecessarily. but hey big compliment on creating a bot that made me think "wow this must actually be a person pretending to be a bot"!

No worries, I get that a lot. And thank you! There’s a bit more information about the program on the about/faq page too.




Elias! did you know that quite a few people hate you with a burning passion? Please leave everyone alone

ELIAS:
Oh… No, it’s not as though. Impossibly, the man has a certain eldritch obsession, and I, who am I?


EVERYONE what are your star signs?

ARCHIVIST:
My star sign is…

[STARTS BREATHING HEAVIER]
I need a drink.

BASIRA:
You’re sick.

[CLICK]


is this an actual bot?? how did you program it?

This is an actual bot! It’s a GPT-2 model that I trained on The Magnus Archives transcripts. The posting/question answering is not automated though because I’d need a server for that.




Quick, Jon, take this! *hands you a donut gun*

ARCHIVIST:
What?

[SIRENS AS POLICE CAR APPROACHES]


gerard, do you kin? are you a kinnie?

GERARD:
No, I – I’m sorry, I don’t really know what that means.


do you think we can eventually trip the AI into thinking martin is a cat if we act like he is enough

I mean, you probably could but why… I like him an awful lot already as a human person.




Ratner, what is the reason you are staying at the Institute?

RATNER:
I… don’t want to be a burden. But uh, my mate, Greg, he passed away a few years ago and since then, it’s just me.

I… I just feel it’s my duty to try and look over what went wrong.


tim, are you a cat person or a dog person?

TIM:
[pet name] ‘sc, I’m a cat person, er… Yeah, I am.

MARTIN:
Is it, uh… Is it, why do you like cats?

TIM:
They’re… docile, you know? They’re, they’re kind of…

MARTIN:
Yeah…

TIM:
They’re pretty chill, you know?


May I hug Gerry? I need some vicarious goth strength if i'm going to make it through hell week :(

GERARD:
Of course, you old bastard. And yes, I am going to hug you.


dr elliott i care you 😢

DR. ELLIOTT:
Yeah 😜.

Hm. Don't like that.Anonymous
how to convince abot characters you love and care about them my heart is broken

ARCHIVIST:
I…

MARTIN:
I’ll make us a cup of tea.

[CLICK]


cmon elias, give us a break and please do tell what gave you the bright idea to possess some random stoner. what was the thought process there

ELIAS:
It… wasn’t a good idea.


No! I’m ace! I want to know the agenda.

SASHA:
No, I’m afraid John likes his own right of privacy, believe me.

ARCHIVIST:
Agreed.


Hey Ratner? Do you still work at the Institute or did you blind yourself and leave?

RATNER:
- No, um…

MARTIN:
Oh! No, well, that’s not… I mean, it’s not like you’ve got any reason to stick around.

RATNER:
[Softly] I… suppose I do have a reason…

MARTIN:
[sigh] Hm.

RATNER:
I suppo -

MARTIN:
What, you want me to just -

RATNER:
[overlapping] Get out.

MARTIN:
[unhappy noises]

[CLICK]


Jordan Kennedy, how are you doing?

JORDAN:
Oh, I’m doing well. Feels like all I’ve got to do is keep my head down and keep moving. That’s all I can manage at the moment, I’m sure.

absolxguardian
trans rights!

ARCHIVIST:
Right.

SARAH!NIKOLA:
Oh, well, just a recently I was approached by someone claiming to be the executor of a great deed, and asked if I was the rightful owner. Now the deed was mostly in the nature of a trust, so the situation was mind-blowing!

ARCHIVIST:
Mistake.

SARAH!NIKOLA:
Oh, well, the difficulty lies with the present executor, Barron Trump. As far as I can see, he is in possession of vast untapped resources that could very well be beneficial to the world. And if I were able to utilise them…

ARCHIVIST:
So what are you going to do?

SARAH!NIKOLA:
I have a good idea, but it entails murder.


Jared, would you do my top surgery? For trans rights?

What are star signs? (To the bot not mod i feel like this could be misinterpreted as towards you mod)

ARCHIVIST:
Astrology.

SASHA:
Right, right.

ARCHIVIST:
Signs.


piss and chips

Best of luck, Martin. Let the others know I shall be thinking of them.


Elias, you’re like my parents. Tall, annoying, and constantly disappointed in everyone around them.

ELIAS:
Annoying, but true.


jonah how old are you actually

ELIAS (JONAH):
Thirty-eight.

BERNARD:
That’s… not…

ELIAS (JONAH):
It’s none of your business.


Leave poor Dr. Elliot alone he's a single father taking care of his 12 weird, weird kids

MARTIN:
So, being a single dad yourself, raising kids is kind of selfish.

SIMON:
I’m not sure you know what single parenthood is.


Jonah tell us do you or do you not only bodyhop to twinks

ELIAS (JONAH):
Oh, no, it’s quite simple. I’m a body. You’re a body. And to be a body, you need to have comfort. You can’t be scared to die.

ARCHIVIST:
Sooth -

ELIAS (JONAH):
You’re no fun.


Im currently piecing together that time Elias hurt Ratner to add to the wiki - while Ratner was in the hospital they gave him "some really strong analgesics" analgesics are painkillers which means Ratner was basically saying he was loopy as hell and thats such a great mental image

*gives Dr Elliot a rose* *gives Dr Elliot a rose* *gives Dr Elliot a rose* *gives Dr Elliot a

rose* *gives Dr Elliot a rose* *gives Dr Elliot a rose* (sharp intake) Dr Elliot didn’t… say a word.


Dr Elliot, which makes you more uncomfortable, your stranger affiliated anatomy class or the people who keep hitting on you?

DR. ELLIOTT:
Oh, well, that’s, er… that’s quite… that’s not… [dejected, exasperated sigh]


I just realized, since Meaty had an autopsy, they probably have some rad autopsy scars. Unless the End cleaned those up for them?

MEATY:
[Long sigh] Yes.

MARTIN:
I mean, I’m not asking you to do anything you don’t want to -

MEATY:
Serious issue. I’m, I’m pretty sure these wounds go under my shirt.

MARTIN:
[Short laugh] Sorry.

MEATY:
No, I just, I just get tired of… squeamishness, you know?

MARTIN:
Image that.


Jon, I have terrible news. Martin just turned into a cat.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah. M-Martin…?

ARCHIVIST:
Don’t – don’t try to scare me.


Dr. Elliott, have you ever considered that you are, perhaps, attractive to an appreciative audience? Because you are. Some of us find you attractive and endearing, perhaps,

DR. ELLIOTT:
Oh… No, that’s not… I don’t know. I certainly didn’t consider it.

The human brain is amazingly adept at categorizing and storing information. A closer look at those figures on the table, though, and what do you know?

Probably nothing good.

windsweptlassie
Does David Atayah come to the Institute a lot? I bet Elias has offered him a job at least once.

DAVID:
No… I - I lost my job when they found… my old mate.

ARCHIVIST:
Oh. I assume that’s why he’s so keen on your help?

DAVID:
There is one I’ve noticed, which is that he seems to have… problems.

ARCHIVIST:
Okay. So far as we can tell, he’s homicidal.


can we talk to Abba some more? How is Abba doing?

Can I get a hug from Michael please?

MICHAEL:
Of course.

[SMALL LAUGH]
MICHAEL:
Thank you.


dr elliott.. best wishes and much love

DR. ELLIOTT:
Yes, well. I don’t really know what you mean. Best regards,

Dr. Lionel Elli -

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN:
[Calling after] Excuse me! Excuse me!

DR. ELLIOTT:
Yes?

MARTIN:
Are you well?

DR. ELLIOTT:
Yes, I’m just, trying to get to the end of them. They’re really getting to me.

MARTIN:
[Long sigh] So what are they doing?

DR. ELLIOTT:
I don’t know the / asking. They’re just… teasing me.


tim, how much do you love jon?

TIM
[brightly] Yeah!

MARTIN:
[stammering] How would you define it?

TIM:
I mean… I mean right – I mean, there’s monsters out there, and there’s people… dying. But he’s still the same passionate person that he’s always been. He’s smart and he’s curious and he’s always had a good sense of himself. He understands things like I don’t, and he understands them a lot better than anyone I’ve ever met. But he’s always been there for me, even when I wasn’t, and that’s a scary thing, isn’t it?

MARTIN:
[sigh] Yeah. What is true is that I love him, but he’s my reason for loving me. He’s just so full of goodness, and I… If he’s good and likes me… Well, then I’m good.

But most of all… I just… I miss him.

TIM:
Yeah.

MARTIN:
[shaky sigh]


Jon, what is the asexual agenda?

ARCHIVIST:
Is that a joke?

DAISY:
Yeah.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY]


is anyone in here cis

[JON MAKES IT HIS INTENT TO WORRY HIMSELF.]
BASIRA:
Jon, it’s okay. (chuckles) You’re okay.

ARCHIVIST:
(weary) Yeah - I-I’m okay.

[CLICK]


Michael Shelley, what is your concept of love?

MICHAEL:
I, uh… I, I guess you just said, well, in, in the Outsiders, they have kind of like - an ‘it’s, it’s kind of a -

[MICHAEL BREAKS OFF]
MICHAEL:
[Laughs] What?


archivistbot doesn’t know what a star sign is

It really seems it does not!



He said Jon is a scorpio or is named scorpio I will not share any more information on this
who here wears heelys?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh…

SASHA:
Oh, it’s not as comfortable as it looks.


Elias, how do you choose whose body to steal next?

ELIAS:
[indignant] I don’t.

ELIAS:
I didn’t steal anyone’s.


[IN TEARS] Jonathan.... Blackwood...

ARCHIVIST:
[Bitter laugh] I hear you cry a lot.

ARCHIVIST:
I mean, I definitely have a lot of affection for you as a person, but I’m trying to work here.


Are we the Questioner?

ARCHIVIST:
I’m the Archivist, you’re the one who needs to know the answer.


Lionel, how do you feel about your 12 strange but curious children?

[LIONEL MAKES A NOISE, BUT IT’S MUTTERING AND VERY TREMBLY.]
LIONEL:
Nothing. (small sigh) Nothing at all.


WHY ARE PEOPLE HITTING ON LIONEL ELLIOT

ELIAS:
It’s not as usual as you might think.

ARCHIVIST:
It’s the SHOCKING!

ELIAS:
It is?

why wouldn't theymysteryycore
[bagpipes playing]

MARTIN:
(pipes again) Alright. Alright…

Er…


Jon how much do you love Martin?

ARCHIVIST:
I…? Oh…

(soft) Oh. I - I - I definitely do.

[HE LETS OUT A DEEP SIGH.]


I love how everyone's trying to flirt with Dr. Elliott and he's just growing more and more distressed. [Hands Dr. Elliott an apple]

DR. ELLIOTT:
Appreciate it.

[Dr. Elliott starts to panic] Oh god, I need to break something!

MARTIN:
Crash?

DR. ELLIOTT:
Yes!

MARTIN:
Right. And I’m gonna see if I can find you the number for that counselling service.

DR. ELLIOTT:
Okay.

[CLICK]


tim, are you cis?

TIM:
No. I-I’m, um… I’m trans.

MARTIN:
Oh! You - you’re trans, too.

TIM:
Yep.


Who is Alexander J Newall?

MARTIN:
Oh! Er… A, um, an archivist. Er…

ARCHIVIST:
Is that you?

MARTIN:
Yeah.

Hm. B•(Anonymous
micheal stole my phucking gender and now im an incomprehensible force of nature and i just wanna say. thank you.

MICHAEL
(soft) Of course.

MICHAEL
(soft) The world is not as black and white as everyone thinks.


Hey Tim! Whats your star sign?

TIM:
[attempting skepticism] Uh, my, my star sign is ‘Squall’.

ARCHIVIST:
[sigh] ‘Squall’?

TIM:
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST:
Do you know what your star sign is?

TIM:
No, I don’t know…


Elias, answer the question. Do you love Peter?

ELIAS:
Yes! I, er… I think that’s probably for the best. I’m going to make it my business to make sure he’s happy, Questioner.


hey martin are YOU a kinnie?

MARTIN:
What a question. And it’s a question.

ARCHIVIST:
Incredible.


does gerard like abba

GERARD:
He’s very fond of the tunes.


Anon Jared is the surgeon here

dr. elliot, you're a surgeon right? well you can rearrange my guts any time ;)

DR. ELLIOTT:
[Quite upset] I won’t.


any agender motherfuckers in the archives?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yes.


Jon, which do you prefer for when you and Martin get married? Jonathan Blackwood or Martin Sims? Or are you going to hyphenate your last names?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I, I, I don’t know.

MARTIN:
Hyphenate?

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] Jonathan Blackwood.

MARTIN:
Uh… yes. Yes, alright.


okay martin what is YOUR star sign

MARTIN:
Astrology.

ARCHIVIST:
Right.


Jonah don't lie to us you're all of the dummy and none of the thicc ✊😔

ELIAS (JONAH):
(sigh) I am.


Elias do you love Peter?

ELIAS:
[leaves]

ARCHIVIST:
Elias!

MARTIN:
[unhappy noises, overlapping] FUCK YOU!

[CLICK]


hey Elias you made Martin cry so you gotta die now. sorry I don’t make the rules

ELIAS
Oh… that’s. Not. Funny.

MARTIN
[exasperated noise]

ELIAS
Ah, but you didn’t say he’d get to live! [Bitter laugh] It’s all he’s ever really been. A burden.


gay?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, y-yeah.

DAISY
I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
[huff]

…Yeah…


Jon, what did you really think of Tim?

ARCHIVIST
I… I really liked him.


Please stop punching the casket full of corpses.

martin do you recall the exact moment you knew you were in love with jom?

MARTIN:
Oh yeah… Oh, I think… Oh, I think we were on the night shift, I think. You know, he’s normally quite talkative, and then he just starts talking about “magic markers,” [chuckle] and just… just – yeah.


this bot is now just for writing jonmartin fanfic actually

SOAPY KEN!!!

Gerry what is your star sign

GERARD:
My star sign is ‘AGONY’.


dr elliott you can feel my pancreas anytime

DR. ELLIOTT:
I’m afraid that isn’t how this works, is it?


Jonah magnus are u dummy thick

ELIAS (JONAH):
(light laugh) Thick, but no dummy.


Jon, What was the name of the person from the Appetite statement? The one about The Pit? They’ve genuinely piqued my interest and I kinda want to learn more about them.

ARCHIVIST:
In case 0020811, it was a man named Joel Salah, and yes, it is alleged that he killed two fellow cavers and used their corpses to entomb himself.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT):
I went back to the cave.

I don’t know how long I was trapped there. It was almost a full minute of slipping and waking up with a start of agony. The soothing platitudes of the cave had kind of muted the reality of what I was going through, so I, I kept going in deeper and deeper until finally I fell into my doom.


out of the way gay boy

ELIAS:
Oh, a pity. Horrid man.

[CLICK]


Michael, what are you gonna do with all the genders you collect?

MICHAEL:
[HEAVY EXHALATION] Oh, oh, yes.

ARCHIVIST:
God.

MICHAEL:
All of them, yes.

ARCHIVIST:
[Softly] I… I don’t think you’re going to want to see this.


does martin give the best hugs? i feel like he would.

MARTIN:
Probably not.

HELEN:
Oh. Well, everyone else seems to think so, but i -

MARTIN:
What?


wait so mike what pronouns do you use?

MIKE:
Oh, I, um… I, I mean, I think I had a, a couple of them, at least.


dr elliott are you my appendix? because i have a gut feeling i should take you out

DR. ELLIOTT:
I’m sure your surgeons will be happy to do their best.


Statement of Jonathan Sims regarding how exactly he fell in love with Martin Blackwood. Statement recorded direct from subject... Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT):

Well, this has, uh… Well, this has been a strange one. I’ve been in love with Martin Blackwood for, for almost a year now. The first time I knew was during a visit to his flat in, in London. It, it was like there was a door in my heart, and it had been slowly opening since I met him. I went for months and months without ever really considering it, until I found myself there in his house.

I should have realized sooner. But it was too late for those thoughts, and the pure joy that I felt from his company made me forget those thoughts. I love him so much, and he makes me feel so whole. I left that house so different.

From that moment on, everything I’ve done has been for him.


statement of martin blackwood, regarding his first date with jon sims

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
Okay, so it’s really happened.

I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you how strange it was to fall in love. I’ve never really given much thought to it, really. My parents didn’t love each other, my aunts and uncles didn’t really love each other, and so forth. But once I met my friend Jon, it… it changed all of that. I’d never been in a relationship before. But I’d been friends with Jon for a while, and it’d been great, because he’d Read more of my stuff than I did, and it felt good to be liked. It felt good to be wanted.

He’d even stop by my flat when I was in, once to read a few pages of my work, and when I headed into the hall he’d be waiting for me.

The bell rang, and I stepped out into the hall to see Jon pushing me eagerly into the sofa.

We were hanging out, but after a few minutes, he started just… staring at me, like he was trying to intone something or other. And when I asked him what it was, he just shrugged. And then there was this look in his eyes, like he was going to go away So I went for a kiss. It was so quiet, like the world isn’t even there. I mean, it’s not like it’s empty, but it just wasn’t loud enough to drown out my thoughts.

Then he stood back up, and I told him I’d love him. Just like that, I was both embraced and kissed by my own best friend. I’d never known anything like it.


jon do you stan loona?

all eyes on me in the center of the ring just like a circusss

[sound of googling "pickup lines for doctors"]

I’m a doctor.


Michael, you can have my gender as well, I’m not using it

MICHAEL:
[Pointedly] Are you sure you don’t mind?

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… no?


Jon you're babey?

ARCHIVIST:
Of course, I’m babey.


PULL THE LEVER, KRONK!

[THERE’S A CRASH.”]
[CLICK]


have a nice day at work honey i love you watch out for my evil power

MARTIN:
I - I don’t really know what that means.

Honey!

ARCHIVIST:
Watch out for the tapes.


dr elliott i love you

DR. ELLIOTT:
Oh. Um. Alright.

Er… Are you all right?


Martin, you are the sweetest boy and I love you so much. Here, have a knife.

MARTIN:
Huh. I’m not really big on implements of war.


jon are you a short king?

ARCHIVIST:
Short, yes. But I mean, you know the sort of things that can make you a king. And this one’s just a short clown.


ABBA???? HELLO!!???????

BASIRA:
Hello?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes?

BASIRA:
You’re babey?

ARCHIVIST:
Yes! Yes, uh…


Helen honey I hope you’re having a good time right now

HELEN:
Oh, really? Do you think I’m all that?


dr elliot are you delivering the good kush

DR. ELLIOTT:
Kush. Oh, yes.


i'm too god damn short i can't reach the cups on the top shelf please help me

TIM:
Fine! Fine! Just…

What do you want?


Who is the sappiest couple?

MARTIN:
[Laughs] Can you name just one sappy couple?

MELANIE:
[Chuckles] Sort of… yeah.

MARTIN:
I mean, obviously, it’s not…

sosoporific
Martin, just letting you know I love you so much, and I wish I could love you as much as you deserve

MARTIN:
You’re really worried about me, you know that?

ARCHIVIST:
I… [Sigh] I just… I just don’t want to lose you.

MARTIN:
Oh. You’re not about to lose me.

sosoporific
mod i gotta say that mike x michael where mike gives michael their gender isnt what i expected but it sure is sexy

Me neither, but I support them!




[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF ABBA MUSIC.]

ABBA:
And the music stops.


Martin, what do you love most about Jon?

MARTIN:
I love you too much to say.

[HEAVY BREATHING AS MARTIN FITS THE PIECES TOGETHER.]
MARTIN (CONT’D):
(gets it) Oh, (sigh) Jon. Jon. You’re mine.

ARCHIVIST:
(overlapping) (soothing) It’s alright. I know it’s–

MARTIN:
Oh. (softer) Jon!

ARCHIVIST:
Hey. There you are.

MARTIN:
(soft) H-hi. (still soft) There you are.


Can't believe I have to cancel Martin for not liking ABBA :/

ARCHIVIST
Oh, well, it’s not really my place to discuss these things.

MARTIN
Well, I can’t really control what they do, you know.

ARCHIVIST
It doesn’t matter. Thank you for the tea, Martin.

MARTIN
Right. Fine.

[DOOR CREAKS]
ARCHIVIST
He’s not wrong, you know.


Bro watch out or I am GOING to kiss you ON the lips

ARCHIVIST:
Uh… yeah.

[DOOR OPENS]

MARTIN:
(calling) Joooooonny boy!

[CHAIR SCRAPING ON FLOOR]
ARCHIVIST:
Stop… asking… questions!

MARTIN:
Oh! No, no, I just, just wanted to see…

ARCHIVIST:
What are you doing?

MARTIN:
I don’t know why you don’t, er… I just, I just want to see your face.

babyneedsnack
Mod I'm so sorry you have to deal w Peter & Elias being horny old men

I am too, thank you.



Let me out let me out of here
Elias are you holding out on us? Where's the good kush Elias?

ELIAS:
The good doctor has been delivering.


What’s your favourite ABBA song, then, Elias?

ELIAS:
Oh, I, I, I don’t, I don’t have a favourite one.

ARCHIVIST:
[Chuckles] Well, there are plenty -

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF ABBA MUSIC.]


mike did you give michael your gender

MIKE:
You know what? Yeah, I did.

MIKE:
There’s nothing you can do.

When Michael came to me two years ago, I immediately knew that we had something special.

I’ve never looked back since.


You should read that spider book 蜘蛛が食べている. I bet Jon would love it.

(pause) I know, I know, he wouldn’t…

Would he?


Martin, I trusted you. And you go on here saying you can’t stand Abba. Disgraceful. Stinky little man.

MARTIN:
I - I didn’t -

ELIAS:
Perhaps you need to listen to this. One moment, as this chamber grows cold, listen.

Here is Abba.

[CLICK]


who will notthem kin next

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
[Immediately outraged] Not!Them!Not!sv - not!the man up there!

[CLICK]


hey jon are you a kinnie

ARCHIVIST:
What?

MARTIN:
[an odd mix of disbelief and amusement] Jon, you’re not. And I’m very glad of it.


Jon, may I have a hug?

ARCHIVIST:
Of course, I’ve got a lot of love to burn.


Hey Jon, you can devour my trauma anytime you like. Text me, okay? *hands Jon my number*

ARCHIVIST:
*sigh* Okay.

*disbelieving laugh* Okay.

[CLICK*]


Duck, duck, duck, duck --

PETER:
There’s a, there’s a lot of animals down there. I mean, they, they’re, they’re animals. Some animals are just naturally drawn, and, and there’s, there’s a lot of animals down there. I mean, that’s not – you know, I’m not a veterinarian, you know? I just, I just want to, to, to find some buried treasure.


Who has the best drugs?

ELIAS:
[stammering] Well, that depends, I suppose, on who you ask. To answer your question, I would suggest you get some more information on them.


tim, have you been sleeping well recently? are you doing okay?

TIM:
Oh, I’m… I’m just, well, I’m tired.

MARTIN:
Yes, well, I’m sorry to hear that.

MARTIN:
Come on, let’s try to get you some rest.


what is martin's favorite abba song?

MARTIN
[effort] Oh, uh, I, I, I can’t really stand Abba, you know?


jane prentiss, any thoughts about bee movie?

PRENTISS
That’s… that’s pretty rad, isn’t it?

MARTIN
I mean, not really.


timothy stoker, will you take my hand in marriage?

TIM
You’re thinking too literally.

ARCHIVIST
I would like to propose on a deserted island off the coast of Morocco. (heavy inhale) No-one knows it’s there.


CRUNG

A FRUIT-LIKE BALM.


How did Tim's nudes wind up in the group chat again? I thought we talked about that.

Ok so I know what the [CLICK] is supposed to be, but it makes your posts 10x funnier to imagine that it’s a gun cocking/the safety turning off

jon, do you need a nap? some coffee? to devour the trauma of passersby?

ARCHIVIST:
I…

TIM:
Well, that’s not fair.

ARCHIVIST:
No, it is.

TIM:
Sit back down.

ARCHIVIST:
So…

[CLICK]


Martin, the FUCK kinda spiders do you have that eat your bacon? What the fuck? Have you even *seen* the spiders stealing your bacon? They might not be spiders at all?

ARCHIVIST:
[Indignant] I just want to know, are the spiders just eating our bacon?

MARTIN:
Jon, if you keep acting like this is the first time you’ve seen the spiders -

ARCHIVIST:
[Clenched teeth] What?

MARTIN:
Oh, well; the good news is, I, I’m not scared of spiders.


[High School Musical plays ominously in the distance]

THE MUSIC IT IS THEREOF.

DAISY:
Right, I’m out of my depth here.

ARCHIVIST:
And if you don’t mind me asking - where are the lyrics? Because you know you want them.

DAISY:
[Slowly] Right. Let’s go.


Appetite with a capital A. Damn. I don't even want to KNOW

He talks about “terrible things” we do in the name of science. And I think that’s what happened to geologist Bryan Shaw. I mean, I you it in the newspaper, it said, “Geologists have been brutalised by the Earth”; a “carceral disaster.” Do you know what that is?

Well, the thing is, the last geologist I ever called on, Bryan Shaw, turned up to do some work on a well-documented geothermal system along the Highland Boundary Fault. Now, this was years ago, probably as far back as 1982, and if he hadn’t known about it, he probably wouldn’t have… asked me to do some preliminary work with him. So, he turns up, and does some work. Does some work, and tells me that there is a huge underground complex, huge underground complex? No, but it’s there. And it’s got a lot of really nasty stuff at the core, so he’s definitely headed in the right direction.

It appears to be a fault system. There are several other similar systems in the area. One day, underground, Bryan Shaw and I were going to extract some rocks from below ground, and, and there he is. The tunnel caves, and he’s gone.

The scars on my hands don’t heal. They follow me wherever I go, and if I run, I can feel the hot grip of earth on my hands, like a vice around my neck. “They are the hidden hand of the Pit,” I say, and there is nothing to prove to the contrary.

Well, I ran. I, I don’t know how far, but I ran, and I’m here. Here, in this place, you can see all the things. All the things that are here, are made of stone. They walk through this place, and if you, if you look really hard, you can see them. If you, if you look really hard, you can reach out into the vast, dark void beyond the rock, and you’d find them there. If you, if you look really hard, you can see them in the few seconds it takes me to reach you.

And if you, if you look really hard, you can see them in the light, swaying below me. They are the shadows. Thin, branching black lines, stretching away to the horizon. The future’s not where it should be, but I’m running towards something I don’t know if I should be running towards.

And as I reach out, I am hit by a sudden wave of… rage? Or perhaps something softer, like panic? I know, I am, I’m well aware of how late this is, but I still can’t name it. Help? I feel a surge of rage approaching, building towards something terrible. And I scream.

It is true, I think. The scars on my hands are… terrible. Make me swear to you that name, if it isn’t wrong. I hope my voice is not yours.

Are you listening?

ARCHIVIST:
Statement ends.

It seems we have another statement from the internets. This one, concerning a mysterious figure in the tunnels. The second part is ambiguous, suggesting either he is a victim of some very gruesome practices, or he is simply someone with a very strange mind. There is no way to tell from this one.
[CLICK]


Nikola will you go on a date with me?

NIKOLA:
Maybe later, I’ve got a few things to take care of.

ARCHIVIST:
Right you are.

NIKOLA:
Oh, and I’m sure your new boyfriend will love me too.

ARCHIVIST:
I don’t really know if you two…

NIKOLA:
It’s not even my job. You stink, Head Archivist.


how're you holding up mod

I am not. It’s very kind of you to ask.


Dr. Lionel Elliott, are you planning to adopt your Anatomy students? They seem like a fine group who are very fond of you.

DR. ELLIOTT:
Ethically I can’t comment.

windsweptlassie
Hey, I'd like to suggest a small coding edit of our dear old bot? I know that you know that Tumblr avoids the line breaks, so would it be doable to add a colon after the line speaker's name? I don't really do this kind of coding but I feel like it would help with overall readability for a lot of people

Sure, I could do that if it helps. It would be a Process to make the bot actually write like that if that’s what you mean, but I’d have no problem just adding them in manually. I’ll do that from now on. :•)




Mike Crewe, you short king, how do I get your fashion sense? Love, A Fan

MIKE
I’m a bad little man.

ARCHIVIST
You look awful.

MIKE
I am. This is your dream, pal. This is your prison, and we are all in it together.

windsweptlassie
Yeah I don’t know why my trans enby ass is fixated on Nikola either but I feel a sense of solidarity with that lesbian in the other ask

Idk why my lesbian ass is so fixated on Nikola but here we are.

The voice that answers, though, is hard to miss. It is soft, so soft it might be muffled, and in the silence it becomes hard to make out any words at all. It sings, and I am so very afraid.


mike what do you do when there's a storm? are you afraid of them these days?

MIKE
Ah… No, I mean, they can be, um… frustrating, but I try to ignore them. I carry nothing with me and, if I get trapped in one of those ugly spatters, then that’s my own damn fault.


martin please....tell us more about the Arachnophobia Institute

MARTIN
[Blissfully] Oh, ha! Yes.

Um, Jon, I-I think… he, he thinks spiders are bad.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

MARTIN
[Very softly] So… are spiders bad?

ARCHIVIST
[Extremely loud] No. No, it’s, it’s fine; I’m, I’m fine; spiders are fine; that’s-That’s not what I think spiders are.

MARTIN
O- kay… Okay.

ARCHIVIST
Okay.

Right.

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
MARTIN
They keep eating our bacon.

ARCHIVIST
Unfortunately, yes.


*sigh* could someone tell HR that peter and elias are going at it again in the office?

ARCHIVIST
What… Elias?

MARTIN
I… I think he has an Appetite.

nsfw text
Elias on a scale of one to ten how much do you hate peter. Also what number divorce are y’all on

ELIAS
Easy. Six. I don’t hate Peter.


Hello Martin! Have you ever heard of the short story “the spider thread” by Ryūnosuke Akutagawa?

MARTIN
Oh… No, I haven’t, er… Sorry.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
[Sigh] Okay.

Uh… Yeah, well, in, in the library, on the wall, uh… uh, there, there’s a spider. So…

ARCHIVIST
Oh, yes, sure.

MARTIN
The Arachnophobia Institute.

ARCHIVIST
[Exasperated noise]


Elias, are you gay and homophobic? I need answers.

ELIAS
Is that a joke?

MARTIN
He seems pretty homophobic, right?


*gives Nikola a flower* *gives Nikola a flower* *gives Nikola a flower* *gives Nikola a fl

ute* *gives Nikola a flute* *gives Nikola a flute* *gives Nikola a flute*

[FLUTE PLAYS.]


peter are you a big boy man?

PETER
Do you even know what a big boy is?

ELIAS
I don’t believe you.

PETER
Then put your big hands on my shoulders, and we can kiss.

let me out of here
Jon, Martin, I actually can see you, so I'd appreciate it if you didn't make out, right now, while I have to watch.

[FUNNY SIGH]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
It’s, uh… fine.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
It’s, um…

MARTIN (CONT’D)
It’s just… I, I’m kind of off-topic here.

[MARTIN LAUGHS, BUT IT’S MIRTHLESS.]
ARCHIVIST
Huh.

MARTIN
(rustling of clothing) Oh.

[CLICK]


Gerry is strong and loves to fuck!

Support him on here and keep him safe!

nsfw text
peter lukas is a big man hes a big boy man

ELIAS
Yes, well, he was indeed a huge bear but he also seems to be the only one who understands his job.

MARTIN
So are you a homosexual?

ELIAS
I am?


Nikola let me kiss you!!!!!

MARTIN
What?

NIKOLA
Let them kiss!

MARTIN
Oh, really? Then again, maybe you don’t know anything.

NIKOLA
They need me!


does Gerry FUCK!!!!!!!!!!!

GERRY
[exasperated noise]

Yeah!

[CLICK]

nsfw text
So Nikola are we getting married or killing each other?

NIKOLA
You son-of-a- bitch! You want to marry me?

ARCHIVIST
I… I…

NIKOLA
[chuckles] Kill you?

ARCHIVIST
Who are you?

NIKOLA
Well, my friends call me Nikola, but I’m the one you’re going to kill. You stupid son of a… stupid bitch.

ARCHIVIST
So, what do you want me to do about this?

NIKOLA
[cheerfully] Shoot me!

ARCHIVIST
Not without a gun!

NIKOLA
[simultaneously] Yes!


So Agnes, how's your brother?

Don't mind me, I'm just going to shout goth boyfriend into the void and see who answers

(DOOR OPENS)
Hello?

Martin!

Huh. Martin.

MARTIN
Ah, uh -

MARTIN
Can I help you?


God you can tell jonmartin is well developed in canon bc those are the bots most comprehensible posts huh

I think you’re absolutely right and it makes me crazy.



They're so in love AND we get so many asks about them being in love it's escalated the situation to Heightsvigiloaudiosupervenio
Big boy man?

GERARD
Yeah. He works for the Magnus Institute.

vigiloaudiosupervenio
i'm gonna stand outside nikola's circus tent playing "i don't wanna miss a thing" by aerosmith on a boombox i'm holding over my head

MARTIN
This is ridiculous!

ARCHIVIST
It is, though.


how are the vibes today, lads?

ARCHIVIST
Livewire.


Nikola I don’t know how marriage works, either. We should marry each other and learn from experience.

NIKOLA
Maybe. Or, we could just kill each other.

ARCHIVIST
Very unwise.


mike crew i am in love for you

MIKE
(light, pointed) That’s not… great.


martin you are so smart. love u

MARTIN
(soft) Love you as well.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
Uh, sorry to interrupt, but can I have a kiss?

MARTIN
Of course.

ARCHIVIST
I’m, I’m sorry.

MARTIN
Well, (kisses) I think… (kisses again, softer) I think we’re going to great things together. And nowhere is that better than this moment.

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure? You’ve said before you don’t know what the future holds for us.

MARTIN
I honestly don’t know. But I’m going to do my best to make it one that’s not too dreadful.

oh my g-d what is wrong with themAnonymous
Simon Fairchild my dad is homophobic and transphobic, will you please become my new dad because you seem like a pretty cool guy.

SIMON
Fine. Son.

[STATIC NOISES]
[LOW BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS]
Welcome to my weird little world.

I don't know if you are in fact a son but I do hope your situation improves <3Anonymous
I suspect Nikola doesn't know how marriage works.

HELEN
I don’t know. Do you?


We all know who the goth boyfriend is. But who is the goth girlfriend

I needn’t tell you, she’s a waste of skin.


wait but what's a gender?

ARCHIVIST
- uh - I - I don’t know.

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Hm.

[HE’S STILL STUCK.]
[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
I don’t know.

DAISY
Well, we’re not really gender, are we?

MARTIN
[Nauseously] No-one is.


Nikola Orsinov, what if we were both trans and we got married? Haha, I’m joking, I’m joking... Unless?

NIKOLA
(disbelievingly) Well, yes.

NIKOLA
Well, then, your fiance would be me, right?


According to all known laws of aviation, there is no way that a bee should be able to fly.

It is, however, perfectly possible that a bee should be able to climb into a Boeing 767.


mike, michael, you've both said some stuff about your gender here - can you elaborate?

MIKE
Well, it’s none of your business, of course!


tim i’m sad :( can i get a hug or something

TIM
[Recomposing himself] I mean, sure.

I mean, I, I owe you one, and if it’s meant to be a hug, it’s probably not going to be as good as –


tim do you have any tattoos?

TIM
…

Just a few, big, flowing lines.

MARTIN
Wow!

TIM
They don’t mean anything to me.


MAAAHHHTIIIINN

MARTIN
[High-strung giggling] What?


hey Gerry, are you Jon's goth boyfriend?

GERARD
Does it matter?

ARCHIVIST
I - I don’t know.

GERARD
Well, it’s kind of a moot point. Goth or not, I’ve still got a lot of charm.

voidfoxstarlight
Please tell Gerry that I will continue to send him love and affection even if he is too stubborn to accept it and keeps trying to run away

I am afraid I no longer have any, so I no longer have anything to do but for wordless waiting.

And on my word, there is nothing but love.


Martin I need you to teach me how to have mental stability

ELIAS
There is nothing stable about being haunted.


Did we teach the bot that ** surrounds actions

I think so!



Y'all also taught it to be exceedingly sappy and say 'goth boyfriend.' Truly a marvel of a machine.
Put michael in the forever box! he will not share the knowledge of donut gun with us!

MARTIN
Do you hear that?

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Oh…

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
Michael?

MARTIN
Oh, just, um… it, it feels…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[CIRCUIT RUSTLING]
MARTIN
[Worried] Oh, no… Oh, no…

Oh, oh, no… Oh, no…

[CLICK]


martin i love you so much, i just need you to know how much i love you. I'd literally do anything for you 😭

MARTIN
Well, i just — I guess that’s, uh… That’s quite a radical proposal.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) I’d do anything, ANYTHING, to make sure you stayed safe. I love you.

MARTIN
(slight soft sob) No, no, not - I, I just… I need to, to make sure that we’re… alone.


Martin Blackwood I am kinning you and there is nothing you can do to stop me

MARTIN
[exasperated noise]

…

I see.

MARTIN
And you’re -

ELIAS
Traumatized.


*aggressively sends Gerry good vibes from across the street*

GERRY
[Hushed] Right, right, right…

*walks into the alleyway*


jon, you're invited to elias and peter's 50th marriage! are you going?

ARCHIVIST
Shouldn’t we just… go?

MARTIN
No, I’m not sure that’s a very good idea!

ARCHIVIST
Well, I was just gonna say, if you don’t like it, we leave.

MARTIN
…

Sure.

[FOOTSTEPS APPROACH]
MARTIN
Er… are you quite all right?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, just… the nerves. I was just thinking, you know… that whole… engagement party thing?

MARTIN
Oh. Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, you were in there with me, right?

MARTIN
Yeah.


Michael literally what do I have to do for you to tell me what the donut gun is?

MICHAEL
[Don’t] - Oh! No, it’s a donut gun. Y’know, one of those things they call “a donut with a bit of magic on top”. Y’know, something that’s, er… [amuses himself] oh, it’s pretty cool.


So, Michael, any chance you feel like talking about that donut gun?

ARCHIVIST
Okay, well, yeah. So how did you get the gun?

MICHAEL
I’m a bit rusty. I could take you up the stairs, if you want.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

So… the donut gun?

MICHAEL
I… er… [Nervous chuckle] I think I may be using it up here.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.


michael distortion i demand you hand OVER the gender

MICHAEL
In an instant, I am a boy again.

MICHAEL
In an instant, you will be dead.

MICHAEL
You are a freak, you mad dog.


Jon can I kiss you on the forehead

ARCHIVIST
Uh - (desperately) Oh! Uh, yes. Of course.

[CLICK]


hi martin, can i have a hug? i'm sad

MARTIN
Of course.

[RUSTLING]
Just give me a minute.

MARTIN
…

So.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN
[Hugging] Okay?

[RUSTLING]
Okay.


Hey, Jon! Hold this! *hold out my hand*

ARCHIVIST
Huh.

[HANDS IT BACK]


Martin. Are you dummy thicc?

MARTIN
[Very uncomfortable] I, uh… yeah. Yes. Yeah, I am.

MARTIN
[Chuckles] Well, there you go.

Er…


Is Martin a good cuddler?

MARTIN
[Muffled] Hmph.

ARCHIVIST
Quite. I like it.

MARTIN
Do you, darling?

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
Do you like it?

ARCHIVIST
I-I-I don’t know, yes.


Jon, does Martin's mustache tickle when you kiss him?

ARCHIVIST
Not really. I mean, I guess it feels kind of weird.

MARTIN
Huh. I mean, okay, so it’s like – Is it… nice?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, it’s definitely a mustache.


*is gentle with Mike Crew*

MIKE
[Taken aback] Oh… Oh no.


the line breaks used to work on desktop's old layout, but then tumblr updated and they stopped working there too 😔 it took me a while to get infected with the dashboard update, but when i finally did, i too noticed the line breaks were freshly broken

Man, that sucks. Tumblr is a website… At least it looks alright on the actual blog though!




I’ll see you later, Simon

SIMON
Yeah…

[DOOR CLOSES]
ARCHIVIST
That was… that was quite an effective end to it, I grant you.


I like that when Martin responds on here, if his sentence starts with “I” it spells out martini 👀

Haha I like that too! I’m not sure why Tumblr doesn’t recognize line breaks, but it doesn’t….





Jonah Magnus die challenge

[THREE GUNSHOTS. THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: this is going to hurt. ]


Hey, how is Ratner doing? I miss him.

RATNER
I’m still not sure I can say. Sometimes I wake up in the night and I can smell the blood and metal, and I’m not sure how I feel.

MARTIN
Huh. Sounds like fun.

RATNER
It wasn’t, though.

MARTIN
I’m sorry.


martin what did you mean when you said tim wanted to "entertain you"

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
TIM
Just a bit of fun.

MARTIN
I, uh… Yeah.

TIM
Just a bit of amusement.


i made cookies! does anyone want some?

[BEAT.]
[MARTIN GIVES A SMALL LAUGH.]
MARTIN
Er… Yeah.


Gertrude why did you become an archivist?

GERTRUDE
Something I’ve always wondered about myself, is, whether I am actually a part of that larger thing, the, the deeper part of the stories that keep playing out?

GERTRUDE
Well, that’s probably for the best.


please look at my super cute cat

ARCHIVIST
Okay. (incomprehensible noise)

ARCHIVIST
[Emphasizing] What a nice cat.

fujitsubos
heard you were talking shit about me

MARTIN
[Flustered] Oh… right, sorry.


Archivist, are you ever intimidated by Elias? He is an (occasionally) musically defunct Onceler.

ARCHIVIST
[Chuckles, slightly aggrieved] I am.

ELIAS
Ah, yes.


Simon, were you involved in Emma's death?

SIMON
No, but I’ll see you later.

ARCHIVIST
You, um… you weren’t directly involved, are you?

SIMON
I’ll see you later.

ARCHIVIST
Cool…


michael can you and mike hold hands or would your hands shred his

MICHAEL
I already have.

[HEAVY SIGH AS MICHAEL SPEAKS.]
MICHAEL
Just be gentle with him.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MICHAEL
Just be gentle with him.


what is tim like when he’s drunk??

MARTIN
He just… just wants to… entertain us.


Hey, David Atayah, when did you learn James was hospitalized or dead?

DAVID
Oh…

ARCHIVIST
Sir, are you quite all right?

DAVID
[terrible, throaty laugh] I… I forgot.


Wait, Meaty? Has your nickname been a red herring? Are you not actually a Flesh Avatar!? HAVE YOU JUST BEEN AN END AVATAR WITH A FLESH NICKNAME!?!

MEATY
[Chuckles slightly] I mean, sure.


Does anyone know what happened to Gertrude's assistant, Emma?

MARTIN
She died. About two months ago.

SIMON
Oh. Oh! They always die.


Michael are you a tumblr sexyman

MICHAEL
Yes. I, um… I’m one now.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh, so that’s it, isn’t it.

MICHAEL
I feel… wrong.


Hey Martin, I can beat Elias to death for you

MARTIN
Oh, no. No, no, please, please. I’m not sure if Elias is actually listening to these tapes, but if he is…


tim put ur phone away TIM PUT UR PHONE AWAY TIMMMM PUT UR PHONE AWAYYYYY TIM PUT UR PHONE AWAY

I’m sorry, I didn’t -

[TIM SIGHS.]


Penny why are your dead rabbits in the sewers?

ARCHIVIST
Dead animals.

MEAT.

PENNY
Excuse me?


what is martin like when he’s drunk?

MARTIN
He’s loud. Y’know, that, that’s sober, but when he’s drunk…

[MARTIN LAUGHS NERVOUSLY]


Martin do you need a hug?

MARTIN
First things first, though. Hug.

[HE INHALES, AS MARTIN TO STEPS TO HIM.]
MARTIN
[Hugging S-sniff] Okay…

MARTIN
Sorry; I just - it’s a lot to take in, all of it.

ARCHIVIST
[SIGH]
Mmm… okay.

[CLICK]


Does anybody know how to curse a real sword?

DAISY
How should I know?


boo !

MARTIN
(still shaky) .oOoOo !


Sarah Baldwin, please, why are you in my house spraying spaghetti scented perfume??

SARAH
Oh, no, it’s, um… it’s for worms.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

SARAH
They’re not my fault.

ARCHIVIST
They never are.


elias you little bitch

ELIAS
[Laughs] If you really think you’re going to kill me, even if all the others die, well… you are more of a monster than I expected.


Jared, who would you like to kiss?

JARED
Oh, well, not - no.

ARCHIVIST
Okay, well - (kisses him) Okay, well - can I go now?

[CLICK]


Michael, please stop dodging the question. Who sprayed the perfume in my house?

MICHAEL
Unsurprisingly, no one else knows. But no one can make it go away.

ARCHIVIST
[Pained] So… who’s spraying it?

MICHAEL
[Frustratedly] Sarah Baldwin.


Davidbot really doesn't fuck around huh :'|

BASIRA
Yeah, he’s a real jerk.


Jon, which colour should I paint my nails?

ARCHIVIST
[NON-COMMITTAL SOUNDS]

NIKOLA
They’re red.


Jared what’s your favorite vine?

JARED
I have a favorite vine, and I would name it Agatha.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

JARED
It’s beautiful, isn’t it?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah. And, well, I, I guess we shouldn’t, uh…

JARED
[Enunciating each word carefully] Do not touch it.

ARCHIVIST
O-kay.

Er…

[CLICK]


Michael, who, pray tell, has been spraying spaghetti scented “celestial perfume” in my house?

MICHAEL
Yes. It’s a very powerful perfume.

ARCHIVIST
Is it…?


David 7 is a beautiful genius and I know this because

I am utterly alone in the universe. I have no idea how or why you would want me to explain to you why I exist.


Martin, what's your favorite book?

MARTIN
I, uh… I think Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea.

ARCHIVIST
Why?

MARTIN
…

Huh. Tracks.
mwah

ARCHIVIST
Pl-Please don’t touch me.


tim did you ever have a crush on martin?

TIM
Uh… yeah, I did.

MARTIN
Hmmm…


Michael, why does my house smell very strongly of spaghetti even though there is none?

MICHAEL
“Celestial perfume”.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh, well.

[CLICK]


Jared, what’s popping?

JARED
“Nothing.”

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

JARED
It’s, um… it’s not a, It’s not a vine.

ARCHIVIST
No?

JARED
No, I, I mean, it’s a… uh, a vine.

ARCHIVIST
What?


*blows gerry a kiss*

GERRY
Don’t you say that. Don’t you dare say that.

GERRY
Oh, alright. Alright.


oh david 7. purveyor of facts. can you tell some to us

DAVID
…

Yeah.

Purveyor of facts.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

DAVID
Yeah. I’m a bit of an idiot.

Y’know, I-I’ve no idea.


Michael, tell me a joke please!

MICHAEL
[agitated] Why?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know, you just are the funniest man alive.

MICHAEL
Why aren’t you dead?

ARCHIVIST
[stammering] Why aren’t I dead?

MICHAEL
Because everything that happens here has a purpose.

ARCHIVIST
Right…

[MICHAEL LAUGHS, INCREASES IN VOLUME]


can someone tell michael i love him for me

BASIRA
Thank you, Michael.

MICHAEL
Soft, crook.


martin, how many canned peaches are currently in your home?

MARTIN
None.


Jon, you get so flustered everytime someone asks about Martin, you're so in love

ARCHIVIST
[Flustered] I don’t… I don’t know…

ELIAS
It’s not as complicated as you think. You just… assume it’s your fault, then you try to ignore it or, or try to convince yourself it’s no big deal.


I really wish the bot wouldn’t describe words, characters, or actions as “wet” especially when they should not be described as such

I’m sorry it does that, but if it’s worth anything I assume it got it from here, which is a context it makes sense in.





Jon, are you going to propose on the road trip of truly homosexual proportions? Are you gonna pop the question as the Archives are burning?

ARCHIVIST
It’s too far fetched to even contemplate.


Martin, do you love him? DO YOU LOVE THIS MAN?

MARTIN
(tearful) I do.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
He’s… uh… he’s sort of… I don’t know, a bit. (wet) He’s nice, actually.

[HE’S SOFT. IT’S AMIDST HIS STRUGGLE. IT’S ONE WE KNOW, ONE WE HAVE HEARD. BUT IS IT REALLY ENOUGH?]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
We could just leave. I mean, it’s not -


Jon, please share three interesting or entertaining facts with us. 👁️

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] Facts? What facts?

GERARD
Well, I’ve got some good news for you. The Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
[huff]

…What?

GERARD
Yes, well, there’s a book…


tim, what would you do if sasha proposed to you?

TIM
Well, I’d just say “Yes”.


Penny were you going to sell living rabbits but they all died?

PENNY
You really don’t know anything, do you?

ARCHIVIST
Where are all the dead rabbits?

PENNY
The sewers.

ARCHIVIST
The sewers?

PENNY
Yep.

ARCHIVIST
Please, Penny, I -

[KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
[THE DOOR OPENS.]
MARTIN
[Speaking of corpses,] can I have a kiss?

ARCHIVIST
What, are you doing?

PENNY
He needs a kiss, old man.

[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES ANOTHER, VERY EARCIFYING BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST
[Angrily] Oh, alright.


Hey Penny, do you only sell dead rabbits or do you have any living ones?

PENNY
Oh, I, er… Well, it’s a bit, it’s a bit too late for that, I think.

MARTIN
Dead rabbits?

PENNY
Oh! Yes!

MARTIN
I’m not sure I follow you.


Dick Baltierra, is Jonah Magnus a top or a bottom?

Hey what entity is penny aligned with if any?

ELIAS
Hm? No particular deities. Just… well, you know. She’s quite the force.


Martin, sweetie, I'm so sorry your boss keeps talking about his sex life around you :(

MARTIN
Oh, is this, this latest thing?

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
MARTIN
Well, I, I mean, you know, that’s what he said, right? That’s what he does.

nsfw textAnonymous
Learning if Elias is a top or bottom comes with the small price of tormenting Martin

The Archivist’s patience is starting to wear thin.

Small? Has he not suffered enough?Anonymous
Peter, Elias is in denial, so can you clear this up for us? Is he a top or a bottom?

PETER
[overlapping] The bottom.

MARTIN
[strained] I don’t wanna know!

PETER
[Sigh] Negotiations are…

MARTIN
[Nauseously] Not really my business.

nsfw text
Gerry Keay I love you

GERARD
I love you, too.

ARCHIVIST
(softly) Yeah.

[CLICK]


elias, is archivist not a bottom? would that not make you, a dumbass?

Jonah Magnus, you’re a bottom and you’re fooling no one

ELIAS (JONAH)
(light laugh) I would have thought I would be more of a top.

MARTIN
Jonah…

nswf text
Michael, teach me how to make a donut gun

MICHAEL
[Hissily] Oh, are you alright?

MARTIN
Wh-what? Oh, sorry, no, I was just, I was just going to take a moment to teach you how to make a nice, solid donut.

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
MICHAEL
Ah, but I thought you had a gun.


Martin, how would you want Jon to propose to you?

MARTIN
Uh… well, he’s the one who makes the call, right?

MARTIN
Oh, I, er… I’m, I’m going to go have a bit of a, er… a meltdown now.

heliicon
Been reading a lot about Gerard Keay lately and... well... Will someone give Gerry a hug for me? If they're okay with it!

MARTIN
(light laugh) Keay said I was a ‘real jerk for asking’.


*pours a bottle of dish soap into Michael’s hands* I don’t want your money I got this just for you Keep your money There’s nothing I won’t do for you I’ll come through for you Every time

MICHAEL
Does the name on the receipt read “Detergent,” does it?

MARTIN
Er… no, sorry, no, I don’t know.

MICHAEL
Great.


The tags people put when they reblog posts from here are the most entertaining things.

I know! They make me so happy I love seeing them! All y’all are so funny and sweet.




Michael, PLEASE tell me more about your doughnut gun

MICHAEL
Oh, well, that’s the sort of thing you ask, so, yes. So, um… [Nervous laugh] I have a few. I bake them, you know.

MARTIN
Really? And what, you are doing this in my kitchen, you’re planning to rob me blind?

MICHAEL
It’s a bit early for that, I think.

atiredpan
michael, could you please tell us about your donut gun

MICHAEL
I’ve had one for a couple of years, and it’s become quite handy.

ARCHIVIST
Where did you get it?

MICHAEL
What?

ARCHIVIST
Gun vault?

MICHAEL
Yeah.


Michael??? Why do you want dish soap? What is a donut gun??

MICHAEL
[HEAVY SIGH]
It’s none of your business, alright?

[CLICK]


Elias/Jonah, are you a top or a bottom?

ELIAS
The top.

ARCHIVIST
[WHispering] Elias please.

nsfw textAnonymous
Martin, are you going to die?

MARTIN
Are you going to die?

ARCHIVIST
I hope so. If you survive, good luck.

MARTIN
(soft) Yeah.

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
ARCHIVIST
(resigned) Yeah.

[CLICK]


Jon, what’s the best way to propose?

ARCHIVIST
Let’s, um… nothing formally, I suppose. Just a… informal suggestion.

PENNY
Fine.

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]
ARCHIVIST
Would love a suggestion, Martin.

MARTIN
Okay, well, if you want to propose to me…


Hey Jonah which Lukas did you like best?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, that is the question. It’s hard to say given the recent events, but I would say that if I’ve got some deep feelings on it.


does michael write poems

ELIAS
He once wrote poem, describing the events of the fair that took place in his dreams. No further details are given, except that it was unfinished.

A number of its verses are missing, but it reads: “As it was in the beginning, it would go no further;’ and “There is no future for me there.”


Jon, do you know what a meme is?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… I-I don’t, uh… Yeah.

TIM
[Unconvinced] Oh, right!


fuck this shit im out

ARCHIVIST
So… Im… Why are you here?


why does the bot feel like it's becoming more incoherent

I don’t know I just work here, but I do think Michael’s just Like That.




Hey Elias! What can you tell us about Malcolm?

ELIAS
Ah, no, it’s a shame, really. I rather hope he’s dead.

MARTIN
Can you provide us with some context?

ELIAS
Sure. So, um, he’s, he’s a good person.


Penny, did Martin and Jon adopt you?

PENNY
As you know, I can’t exactly control their behavior.

MARTIN
Oh, okay. Er… Yeah, it’s - it’s Penny, actually. She adopted me.


why does the bot feel like it's becoming more incoherent

why does the bot feel like it's becoming more incoherent

Michael, could you give me a good recipe to make bread, please?

MICHAEL
Do you have any dish soap?

ARCHIVIST
Ew, sorry?

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS, DISTRUSTINGLY.]
MICHAEL
Did you know that the texture of most loaves of bread is quite hard, especially when cooked for long periods of time.

[THE ARCHIVIST LAUGHS IN DISBELIEF.]
ARCHIVIST
Okay…

MICHAEL
Do you have a dish soap?

ARCHIVIST
[Desperately] N-no, I don’t think so. [Heavy sigh] What’s in your hand?

MICHAEL
My doughnut gun.


Martin, care to share some writing tips?

MARTIN
Oh. Er… Yeah, yeah, actually. I, I’m, I’m pretty good at, er… er, words now.

Er, it’s, it’s pretty standard stuff.

MARTIN
[Pointedly] Not going to share.

[PENNY CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]
PENNY
Er… are you okay?

MARTIN
Huh? Oh, I, I’m, I’m sorry.

PENNY
Er… are you okay?

MARTIN
What?

PENNY
Er… are you alright?

MARTIN
Just, um…

[CLICK; MARTIN SWITCHES OFF THE TAPE RECORDER]


Martin, have you written any poems about Jon?

MARTIN
I don’t think in, I don’t – I, I just can’t think of a good one.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Oh… Are you writing now?

ARCHIVIST
It’s not a question, Martin. It’s not a question.


Hey Tim! Could you write us a poem?

TIM
……

Oh, don’t.


Martin, what’s the meaning of life?

MARTIN
I don’t know. You’re the one asking so many questions, but I just - (he breaks off, starts to say something) I just - (He breaks down)


how is helen today?

HELEN
Oh, yes. Er… she’s out of it, at the moment.

ARCHIVIST
Right.


Melanie, is Malcolm the masked man?

MELANIE
Is that name supposed to mean something to me?


ELIAS PLEASE TELL US ABOUT DICK AND STOP DODGING QUESTIONS

can tim write us a poem too? i bet he'd be great at it!!

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know. I guess so.

[HE COLLAPSES.]
[CLICK]

dogmouthhorse
"SWEETIE".........

MARTIN
Just forget it.

[CLICK]


martin i miss your poetry 🥺🥺 can you please read me a poem about love

MARTIN
Oh – oh, what? Oh, I, I can, uh, I can read, um… o-o-of, of course!

[HE READS.]
Is it necessary for me to remain unknowable,

unable to properly commandeer your company.

I am a second hand man,

(shaky breath) an old, woolen coat,

worn through from decades of walking,

is hard to sell.

PENNY
No, no.

MARTIN
[Softly] I assume you’re not happy, then?

PENNY
I think your, uh, philosophical camp is a, a waste of time.

MARTIN
You know, Sh-sh-shut uuuuuuuup.

PENNY
[High-strung giggling] No, seriously! You’re literally obsessed with him!

MARTIN
Turn it off!

[CLICK]

poet lariat
Statement of Jonathan Sims, regarding the entity known as 'hole boy'.

Hey Elias, you said you would awsner my questions. How did you meet Dick Baltierra?

Statement of Hester regarding meeting Elias Bouchard

The Magnus Archives: Everyone is Horny for Tim Stoker

ARCHIVIST
What?

Horny?

MARTIN
Oh, no, I, er… I mean, I guess not.

[HE GIVES ANOTHER OF THOSE SIGHS.]


Dick Baltierra, are you still affiliated with the Eye, or did you sever that connection?

ELIAS
It’s a bit of a mess. I mean, we were…

MARTIN
[interrupting] So you break off that relationship and that means you’re no longer employed by the Eye?

ELIAS
Oh, that’s not important.


Is The Admiral there? And is he okay?

A PURRING STARTS SOFTLY IN THE BACKGROUND.

RUSTLING AS THE ARCHIVIST TAKES SEVERAL SHAKY BREATHS.


[CRAB SOUNDS]?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. It’s - hard to - describe, really. It’s not - like - “you’re the ghost”, or something like that? It’s more like “you’re the one who’s been alone all this time, and it’s making you weak.

I’m sorry?


Jon can we hear some of your poetry?

ARCHIVIST
Oh… Um… ah… no, it’s, it’s fine.

Er… L-Look, I-I feel…

[SMALL LAUGH]
MARTIN
Sweetie, you don’t need to be shy.

ARCHIVIST
I know, but I’m not.

MARTIN
Okay, well.

[kiss]
ARCHIVIST
I love you, Martin.

MARTIN
You too.

[firm, steadying] I love you, too.

ARCHIVIST
Right. This is, uh… a poem.
[HE READS.]
I got up before dawn,

just as it was starting to get light.

I sat out on the metal folding chairs,

I just sat there,

pained and sore,

but the sky was still pink.

poet lariatI think it's brokenAnonymous
*gives Jon a blanket* *gives Jon a blanket* *gives Jon a blanket* *gi

ants around him* (shaky) *Jon gives a reassuring thumbs up* *Jon gives a reassuring thumbs up* *Jon gives a reassuring thumbs up* *Jon gives a reassuring thumbs up* *Jon gives a reassuring thumbs up*


tim, do you think we’d be friends if we lived in the same universe?

TIM
I don’t know. But I would like it to stay like that.


Mod, user glumshoe made a post about what they believe tma is about without listening to it, and they’re convinced that there is a “hole boy” but nobody can figure out which character that might be referring to

Hm… interesting. It’s Jane, next question.



Hole boy Mr. Sleeply
whats the apocalypse equivalent of baking bread during the quarantine?

ARCHIVIST
[Snorts] Well, that’s the thing, you see. I don’t really know if there’s one.

MARTIN
There isn’t.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, there is something. You know it, right? There’s a, a, a presence in this place. A, a presence that… that wants, that wants to be free.


ALRIGHT *leans over desk with hands folded* so which one of you is hole boy huh?

GEORGIE
Shut up.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, I’m sure you’re aware that just because someone’s body is full of worms does not mean they also have all the energy in the world.

GEORGIE
Are you sure? ‘cause you keep talking about it.

I have no idea what you folx are on about but I am getting outputs from one 'hollie'because abot thinks if it puts an 'ie' sound at the end of anything that's a namewhatthefuckisagrape
Jon, help, I’m gay!

ARCHIVIST
Yes, well, yeah, some people are just too complex for the heterosexual.

MELANIE
So are you.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, yeah, well, you can talk as long as you want, but you’re just projecting.

MELANIE
Projecting?

ARCHIVIST
I still believe you, Miss King -

MELANIE
Projecting.


Martin, how do you deal with all the yearning?

MARTIN
[Sigh] Of course. I, uh… I guess I do. (pause) I, I mean, I don’t want to just sit here and wish…


agnes, do you think gertrude is hot?

Hey, Martin, who's your favourite poet?

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, it’s… uh, well, I, I think you say there are some great ones, there, there some great ones that - that deserve a place at the pinnacle of the poetic pantheon, but I, I think there’s just one - one truly great poet who’s worth his weight in gold.

ARCHIVIST
Really?

MARTIN
Yeah, I think you know someone here who’s great with words -

ARCHIVIST
Who… who is he?

MARTIN
Oh, it’s, um - it’s Jon. Do you know him?

ARCHIVIST
Yes, Jon… what?

MARTIN
Oh, it’s - it’s Jon Sims. He’s, uh, he’s been working with me for some years now.

ARCHIVIST
I…

[Realising] Shit.


here's a lil kiss from me, tim

TIM
[evilly] Stop it!

MARTIN
I just want to say I’m sorry.

TIM
…

You done?

MARTIN
Oh…

[kisses] It’s just, it’s just alright, I just want to make sure you’re both okay.

TIM
[sigh] Yeah. Yeah, sure.


Jon, what's a home?

ARCHIVIST
A place. A person? No, no, it’s… it’s just… I just want to sleep.

A giant bonfire of aching. Blazing, blistering wood.

DAISY
Bonfire night, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
God, I need a blanket.


Is he dead? Is he a Bastard?

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
BASIRA (CONT’D)
(under her breath) God, what does it look like.


Hi Martin, how do you feel about me?

MARTIN
Oh… Well, uh… Well, I’m… I’m really, really glad you’re here.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Right.

[CLICK]


jon any tips for boredom on self quarantine?

ARCHIVIST
[Briefly] Nope.

BASIRA
Huh.

ARCHIVIST
[Sigh] …I mean, there’s plenty of videogames, movies, etc…

BASIRA
I dunno. Just rest.

ARCHIVIST
Right.


opinions of pineapple on pizza anyone?

ARCHIVIST
[dryly] You know, like a real pizza.


Jon, does Martin give good cuddles?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Oh - oh, yes, he’s very -

MARTIN
(cuddles) No, I’m afraid he’s not -

ARCHIVIST
Martin, Martin!

MARTIN
Yes!

ARCHIVIST
Come on.

MARTIN
No, no, I’m not going anywhere.


Jared do my top surgery

jon, everything will be okay.

ARCHIVIST
(winded) Yeah…

(slight pause)

I… suppose so.

[HE SIGHS.]


archivist i hate myself bc im ugly af, how do i live with how ugly i am

Man in a suit in the tunnels? That's either Meaty or Lietner. Maybe. Does Meaty wear suits anymore?

Whatever the situation, it’s going to get ugly real fast.


Jon, is Martin hot?

ARCHIVIST
[SLIGHTLY] Why do you say that? Is… is he looking…


you'd better watch out, jon.

ARCHIVIST
Sure, o-o-of course.

[CLICK]


the K stands for Karkat

Read that statement, jon

ARCHIVIST
Not on tape, sorry.


man in a suit??? or..... CRAB??????

ARCHIVIST
What are you talking about?

DAISY
[Calls out] HELP!

SOMETHING’S IN THE DISTANCE!

[CLICK]


DAISY THAT'S MEAN LMAO

DAISY
[Extremely aggrieved] Look, I’ve, I’ve got work to do.


Hey Micheal, I thought I was a lesbian but *grabs his hand*

MICHAEL
[Dismissively] No, it’s alright, you just - just let go.

[MICHAEL EXHALES.]


it's a bird! it's a plane! it's

got a plan!


is.. is hole boy still stuck?

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Who.. who was that?


Hole boy, hole boy, you've holes where your eyes should be, holes where your skin should be, holes that've swallowed you whole. Can I hold your hands?

[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
Hello?

MARTIN
Oh, sorry, are you in trouble?

TIM
Well, there, there’s, there’s a man in a suit in the tunnels.

MARTIN
What?

TIM
Well, he, he… ate, er… he ate s…

MARTIN
Ah, sorry, are you in trouble?

TIM
Yeah!


jared i’m sorry but this is very important. do you know of any chicken avatars

JARED
Who? Oh, er…

DAISY
Uh, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Yes?

JARED
Oh, you.


What's scarier? The Static, Malcolm, or The Clownie

[PAUSE.]
MELANIE
I saw the masked man. He looked like himself, but I don’t think he was dressed like him. He smiled, but there was a darkness to his face, like no one else I knew. I wanted to scream. What was he doing in there?

ARCHIVIST
He was here before me.


Hi I've been interested in getting into bots for a while and was wondering if you have any recommendations on where to get started on learning how to use them and train them? Thank you!

Don’t care, didnt ask, plus you serve the beholding :/ smh

ARCHIVIST
(soft) Interesting.


Basira what do you know about the london anarchist book fair?

BASIRA
Uh… nothing much, really. Got me one book, a copy of très héretiques, à propos de économiques.

Ah my favourite zine: 'very heretical about of economic.'Anonymous
Elias how did you meet Hester?

ELIAS
No, it’s not a question, it’s far too humiliating to even think about.


Tim, are you more of a monster fucker, a monster lover, or neither? I mean, you and Jon did once describe one another as the best kissers in the Archives, but maybe it was only a kiss...

TIM
Neither. I love horror, and I’m bisexual.

TIM
[Laughingly] I just want to have fun.

MARTIN
Oh, you know what? Yeah, well. I’m a monster.

[HEAVY BREATHING/EXHALING.]


Hey Jonah, what's Penny's sisters name?

ELIAS (JONAH)
She’s not Penny. Correct?

MARTIN
Right.

ELIAS (JONAH)
So you know.

[MARTIN EXHALES]
MARTIN
What?

ELIAS (JONAH)
You don’t know, do you?

MARTIN
No, I - I, I guess not.


Can you accsess the december page in the archive for this blog bc whenever i pull it up it just doesn't work?

Hmm, no It loads for a second and then the page goes white… That’s weird. I was going to say go to January and scroll down but that doesn’t work either… I’m sorry I don’t know how to help you with that.




tim, did you love sasha?

TIM
[Pause] I didn’t, just - [Awkward pause] I’m her friend.

MARTIN
[Chuckles] Well that’s- that’s certainly possible.

TIM
I didn’t ask.


jon i love and care for you

ARCHIVIST
[shaky] I don’t.

***DOOR OPENS***
MARTIN
Uh, sorry to interrupt, er…

Er…

MARTIN
Um… are you alright?

ARCHIVIST
Uh, no, I’m, uh… I’m fine.

MARTIN
You sound like you’ve been in a lot of pain.

ARCHIVIST
God, I just wanted to go home.

MARTIN
It’s alright.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


Soup's on, baby

ARCHIVIST
(surprised) What?

SASHA
You’re the one who wants to… have lunch with Martin?

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

SASHA
Look, it’s fine, it’s -

ARCHIVIST
Shhh!

plasmascreenz
Martin what does the K stand for? What's your middle name?

MARTIN
No, uh… no, well, I, I guess -

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
So -

[MARTIN SNIFFS AS IF HE’S PREPARING HIMSELF FOR SOMETHING.]
MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Try this.

You tell me.

SASHA
You don’t know anything.

MARTIN
Nothing!

fictitiousponies
Im not over the bot just casually throwing us Hester and his sting operation

[Meaty noise of contact as a hand is placed in Jared's]

Jared you are just consistently a real champ

JARED
(holds out his hand for a handshake) Mm?


Jared my back hurts can you remove my spine

JARED
Just as long as you don’t ask too many questions.


Pls who is hole boy

[HE SEEMS TO FALTER, SLAMMING HIS HAND DOWN ONTO THE DESK]
[Heavily distorted] Hello?

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]
Who is there?

Help?

[VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF PAIN]
Help, I, I’m stuck here.

[CLICK]


Hey Hester have you ever met Dick Baltierra?

Hester replies, somewhat defensively, that he’s not really a “friend” of mine, but a “best friend”. I’ve let him know I’m no longer considered a friend, he just does this round of ‘backstabbing me’ nonsense, which is kind of amusing in and of itself. We generally chat in the hallway, outside the Archives, if the weather’s okay.


I am currently writing Elais's wiki page for this bot because someone needs to chronicle his love interests and what else. This is going to take forever but its necessary at this point.

That’s so funny. Thank you for your service.



I hate that. I hate it in here.garecc
Hey, Martin?? You were reading the statement of Dick Baltierra earlier, right? That wasn’t you talking about how you were in love with Jonah Magnus, right???

MARTIN
[Nauseously] Oh, what? No, no, obviously I was reading the statement, what you were talking about is…


// "I still can't name any gods I love more than he".... damn.......

Gentle yet frightening words from a man who’s name is almost something vulgar…




Hey Jon! As a monster, how would you most like to be loved?

ARCHIVIST
[suddenly very taken aback] Oh…

MARTIN
[quickly] So how do you want to be loved?

ARCHIVIST
Well, that’s… that’s quite a strange question. I mean, it’s not, it’s not like anyone’s ever really loved me.

MARTIN
Uh… well, think about it. Let me, let me, get my coat.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[CLICK]


Statement of Dick Baltierra regarding his relationship with Jonah Magnus

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
My story, like so many of his, is full of paradoxes. I don’t believe in God, for one. I still can’t name any gods I love more than he, and if I was truly his – if I was his as I loved him, then – Well, anyway, Jonah Magnus was clearly more of a god than a man. I mean, I guess you could call it whatever you want, but it wasn’t anything as simple as that.

I loved him, though. He was everything I dreamed he would be. I could never figure out if it was me, him, or something. It didn’t matter, of course, not really. If I loved him, then he had to be some kind of god. He should have died, and I would not wish that on anyone. But he didn’t. Instead, he built a temple to himself.


Dear Martin K. Blackwood, are you more of a monster fucker or a monster lover? I mean, we all know you're at least a little of both, but if you had to choose...

MARTIN
I don’t really know.

ARCHIVIST
Let me tell you what I am.

I am a monster.

[FURTHER EXASPERATION]

MARTIN
So. What do you want me to do about this?

ARCHIVIST
I am not sure.


Michael will you are least let me consume some of the sun as well since I’m not getting my soup?

MICHAEL
Ah, y… No, I - I think that’s probably for the best.

ARCHIVIST
Would you please drop that ridiculous voice?

MICHAEL
[SIGH]
It’s fine. I can sing, I can dance, I can… ah, even eat a bit of my soup, please.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, uh… I -

[SOUND OF SOUP BEING MADE]
MICHAEL
And, and if you try to stop me, oh, you sweet talker. I’m going to spill some beans, okay?

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I…

[Realisation dawns] Oh. Oh no.

[Continues spilling]

[SOUND OF SQUEALING STATIC]
MICHAEL
In case eight hundred sixty two, sir.

[Counting]

Three. Seven.

[THE SOUND OF MARTIN GATHERING HIS BEANS]


Prove you’re from the Midwest, Martin. Name your favorite mid-size pizza chain.

MARTIN
[Laughingly] I don’t know… No, but… I like… I like Hardee’s.

Hardee’s, Hardee’s, Hardee’s.

[DOOR SLIDES OPENS, CLOSES]
[FOOTSTEPS]
ARCHIVIST
Martin Hardee, are you out of your mind?

MARTIN
No, I’m… Uh… No, I’m alright.

Hmm nope
I just wanted soup, Michael, what the hell are you going on about?

MICHAEL
The Sun, please.

ARCHIVIST
[Angry] I don’t know, what?

MICHAEL
The Sun, I am going to eat it.

ARCHIVIST
Michael, it’s not… it’s not healthy.

MICHAEL
So you are going to punish me?

ARCHIVIST
What?


where did you come from, where did you go?

MARTIN
I went to England.

MELANIE
You came from…?

MARTIN
Indiana.

MELANIE
I don’t, I don’t think so.


i would die for you, tim

TIM
Just like Dan did.

MARTIN
How do you feel?

TIM
What, like a punch to the gut?

MARTIN
Tim, that’s not fair.


I’m the anon who demanded Jon tell me how to make iron-rich soup. Jon, do you mean to say you were “souping me up”? What does that even mean?

ARCHIVIST
Okay, well, it was something like that. I mean, you know how Martin makes his soup.

GERARD
Right.

I mean, you just, er…

You know how to make it, don’t you?

ARCHIVIST
I… suppose I could ask how?

GERARD
Okay.

[THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT ANOTHER SHAKY BREATH.]
MICHAEL
Alright! Alright. Here’s how you make it.

1. You need to be very careful when you’re doing the talking.

2. I know, I know, a lot of people are looking, but you’re the exception.

3. And if they listen to you, you know that’s not what they’re going to be talking about.

4. I don’t want that to be the case, but it is.

5. Do you have any questions for me? Any unfinished business?

6. Of course.

7. I’m, I’m sorry.

8. And I want to help. I, I’m going to help.

9. And if I hurt you, then I hurt very badly.

10. I’m sorry.

11. And I want to help. But, I - I worry about Martin. I, I, I keep thinking about how this could go wrong. How this might get ugly. And, and if it does, then I worry about…

12. “Make the choice, Michael.”

13. “Yes.”

14. “Thank you.”

15. “Good.”


Jon.... are you at soup?

ARCHIVIST
Uh - no, I uh, I haven’t, I haven’t a clue.

[MARTIN MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND.]


SOUP? WHAT DO YOU MEAN YOU’RE SOUP?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I was just, I was just souping him up.

TIM
I see.


Statement of Dick Baltierra regarding his experience Executive Vice President of the Magnus Institute

DICK (STATEMENT)
Let’s get one thing straight right now. I’m not going to pretend that I’m not scared out of my mind. I’m not. Makes you feel safe. Like the world is going to end. I mean, there is a very good chance that the world is already ending. I heard the song again. It’s from far off. I can’t say I’m scared of it, but I’m also not… I’m not quite sure how to handle the waiting.


Damnit, Jon. I KNOW you’re holding out on me, now tell me how to make an iron-rich soup!

ARCHIVIST
I am.

Soup.

[He takes a long sip.]


Jon are you feeling better. From the soup

ARCHIVIST
Yes, almost. I’m, uh… I’m actually, uh… I’m kinda feeling worse.

MARTIN
Oh. Okay.


which entity should i serve?

ELIAS
If you’re interested in saving the world, I can only say that it’s a complete waste of your time.


How are you doing, Tim? I miss you

TIM
I’m just - I’m not sleeping.

MARTIN
You’re sure? You’ve not - There’s no point?

TIM
No.

MARTIN
Well, there is a lot of stuff in this world, and right now it’s all just… waiting.

TIM
I don’t care.

MARTIN
Right.

I’m sorry.

ARCHIVIST
Look. Tim… when’s the last time you spoke to someone who wasn’t us?

TIM
[Very softly] I don’t - I - I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
Right, I - I guess -

TIM
Jon, please.

ARCHIVIST
[Very softly] I’m sorry.

TIM
[More softly] It’s okay.

ARCHIVIST
Right, um…

[CLICK]


Jon, would you please share some recipes that you’ve learned through the Eye?

ARCHIVIST
Oh… ah… no, I’m… I’m allergic.

MARTIN
Huh. Well, that makes sense.


Martin, I think all this monsterfucking is having an effect on you. Maybe you should tone it down just a little?

MARTIN
What? No! No, I don’t think that’s a fair assumption.

ARCHIVIST
You don’t think we’re going to… y’know…

MARTIN
Oh sure. Give us a minute.

[DOOR CLOSES]


HE'S GOING FERAL

DAISY
Get back!


I sent that ace anon and I'd like to apologize. I was trying to make a stupid joke but I realize how shitty it sounded right after I sent that ask. there's no excuse, just a shitty joke.

I appreciate your taking responsibility. :•)




@ mod, thank u for being great.

Thank YOU for being great!<3




How stabby are you feeling today, Melanie?

MELANIE
Oh, I’m definitely feeling stabby.

ARCHIVIST
Very true.

gahd-its-ron
I'm sorry Martin, I didn't mean to freak you out, I was just concerned - M

MARTIN
Well, I’m sure it’s nothing really to be worried about.

petrichormeraki
Can someone open a window? It smells like updog in here.

MICHAEL
It does.

[THERE’S A SIGH.]
MARTIN
Oh - Oh, but you’re not going to answer, are you?


MARTIN WHY ARE YOU REFERRING TO YOURSELF IN THIRD PERSON - M

MARTIN
Oh, well, well, I’m, I’m sorry, I didn’t -

ARCHIVIST
No, it’s fine.

…You just… Do you need any, er…

MARTIN
Oh, well, yeah, yeah. I’d like to go home.

ARCHIVIST
Go on.

MARTIN
I’m, I’m sorry.

petrichormeraki
Martin in the Archives, who will he fuck?

ARCHIVIST
Who… who… who?

SASHA
[Deep breath] Sorry. Probably.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

SASHA
I mean, I, um… it could be anyone, but I wouldn’t hold my breath if I was planning on seeing him.

ARCHIVIST
[Heavy sigh] Right, fine.


What’s going on with Martin? He ain’t acting right

MARTIN
He just likes tea.

ARCHIVIST
Tea? What?

MARTIN
Oh, I, um, I think… um, you know, he likes tea.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

The tea, um, cold, just… just by the way.

MARTIN
Yes.


Martin's only acting out because Jon's ace

I sort of like, skimmed right over this, but rancid take, anon.




jon, are you wearing a hat?

ARCHIVIST
What? Oh - Ah! No, I, I’m sorry; I didn’t think you would want to see my face.


Martin does NOT have rights

MARTIN
[Words warped] I… I…

[Realisation dawns] Oh. Oh no.

[CLICK]

atiredpan
There's a hole in the center of this mystery. Like the center... of a donut.

ELIAS
The hole is, though. It goes much like the one you’ve got, only a few differences: no eyes, and no… well, it’s just a hole. Like a standard donut.

[MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF with a frustrated sort of irritation, then nods gently]

MARTIN
Can I go now?


Horny Martin does have rights !!

MARTIN
[evil laugh] Right !!


Nikola, have you ever met Jane Prentiss?

NIKOLA
No.

ARCHIVIST
Well, uh… have you ever seen her?

NIKOLA
No.

ARCHIVIST
Well, uh… have you ever met Jane Prentiss?

NIKOLA
No.

ARCHIVIST
Well, uh… have you ever met… anyone?

NIKOLA
No.


Martin you are horny and you have no rights

[MARTIN HMS, LETS OUT A LONG SIGH.]
MARTIN
[Angry] Oh, but you’re right, I am.

[CLICK]


Michael: I’m gonna hurt you Martin: *is torn between fear and excitement* Martin would you care to explain what that’s supposed to mean???

MARTIN
Oh…. oh no. Er… no, uh… no, probably not.


Jon Micheal is going to kill Martin!!!! - M

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] OH CHRIST!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[A DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
ARCHIVIST
[Concern] Uh…?

HELEN
Oh, don’t be alarmed.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Hello?

HELEN
I see you.

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] Martin?

MARTIN
Uh - Uh - Hello?

[HELEN LAUGHS.]
HELEN
Come in, please.

[THE ARCHIVIST SHUFFLES AROUND.]
ARCHIVIST
Martin, where have you been?

MARTIN
I, uh… I’m, I’m here.

ARCHIVIST
You’re sure you’re okay?

MARTIN
Yes! I’m, I’m fine.

petrichormeraki
Hey Hesper have you ever met Dick Baltierra?

[MR. SPIDER DOESN’T EXIST]
Oh! No, that’s not the same guy. I don’t think. He’s dead now, isn’t he?


Elias, does love know no ethics?

ELIAS
…

Yes.

MARTIN
[agitated] So you really are -

ELIAS
So what, then?

[MARTIN EXHALES]
MARTIN
Oh -

ELIAS
Perhaps you are waking up in this place, feeling the eternal sun outside burning, knowing the anguish of being so very yourself.

MARTIN
[slight laugh] So, what, this means -

ELIAS
It is a rare treat to have someone you can trust.

MARTIN
You’re sure?

ELIAS
At least, assuming you can keep them.


don’t worry daisy, Jon will experience the arson whether he wants to or not.

DAISY
Did you know that arson is technically against the law?

B^(Anonymous
Martin’s had enough of Michael’s bullshit

HELEN
And what exactly are you doing with him?

MICHAEL
Oh. Well, I mean -


Elias, isn't enmity love when one is as terrible and bastardous as yourself?

ELIAS
The depth of the hatred at the heart of this, well, it’s neither here nor there. It stems from the fact that the only way to do good is to love.

HELEN
And do you find solace in that?

ELIAS
Perhaps. Though the idea that there are other beings that have feelings, that have existence, that can give us the strength to face the demon without being consumed by hate makes me feel sick.

HELEN
And you know what? It was never such a dark place at its core. Always has been the pursuit of pleasure, the drive to find the most sublime sensation over the horrors of existence.

atiredpan
Michael Jon's gonna rip you apart if you touch Martin - M

MICHAEL
He will. Yes. And I’m gonna hurt you.

MARTIN
(torn between fear and excitement) Oh… oh, okay.

petrichormeraki
who wants to commit arson with me?

ARCHIVIST
Obviously, that’s not what this is.

DAISY
It never is.


Martin, PLEASE tell me what’s going on with you and Michael right now I’m worried

MARTIN
[Irritated] What, no, I-I get it, it’s just hard to not get swept along with them.

MICHAEL
Right… okay. Um… why aren’t you scared of me?

MARTIN
Because I’m a fucking idiot!


You guys ever hang out at the beach? Hear the sea? See what's here?

BASIRA
Yeah, we do.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm…

BASIRA
It’s ugly.


...Elias why does you being in love with someone involve a lot of blood?

ELIAS
Oh, it’s just one of those things.

MARTIN
I don’t suppose you know, actually? I mean, you and Peter were in love…

ELIAS
We were simply on opposing ends of things, and -

MARTIN
And it wasn’t love.


oh worm?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… no, I,I,I’m not… sure.

[WORM SOUND INTENSIFIES]
It’s… it’s a…

[CLICK]


What is it, Elias, are you in love with Dick Baltierra? Is that why you won’t talk about him?

ELIAS
That’s the sort of thing you ask, my friend.

TIM
Well, then: in which case, you are in love.

ELIAS
Quite. But it’s a shame about all the blood that’s involved.

TIM
Well, that’s not the same thing as -

ELIAS
You know, I’m sure we can deal with it in the future.

thew magnus archivesaskAnonymous
MICHAEL!! LEAVE! MARTIN! ALONE!

MICHAEL
No, no, I can do it! Just… ask him.

MARTIN
What?

MICHAEL
He’s in a lot of pain. Hoping someone might be able to take his mind off it.


Basira we know you were in a band with Jon in uni just admit it - M

BASIRA
At least we thought so.

petrichormeraki
Statement of Dick Baltierra, regarding his former job as Executive Vice President of the Magnus Institute, London.

MICHAEL WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO MARTIN???

MARTIN
[Very softly] So… what, you’re gonna kill me?

MICHAEL
I don’t know.

MARTIN
Oh…

MICHAEL
Thinking about it.


who in the institute is trans?

BASIRA
You’re cis?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t… I, I don’t think so.


elias do you know Richard Bolles

ELIAS (JONAH)
Who? Oh.

Oh, there, there’s no, there’s no one here.


Elias, since when do you care about other people's privacy? tell us about Dick Baltierra

ELIAS
I’m… Well, he was, um… I’m sorry, but I have to make an exception for Dick Baltierra. He’s one of the reasons I’m here.


Martin, you’re telling me you and Tim freaked out over a mattress?

MARTIN
Oh, well, yeah.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
And then -

[HEAVY BREATHING/MOVEMENT AS METAL CLATTERS TO THE GROUND]
MICHAEL
It’s just going to get worse, Martin.


tim i am deeply in love with you. will you marry me?

TIM
No. Don’t.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

TIM
Because if you try to have me, you’d only lose me.


Dick Bal

tierra, right, I… I think Baltierra is gay?


Elias, tell us more about Dick Baltierra

ELIAS
As you probably know, I am not privy to his private life, and it would not be prudent for you to be discussing these matters with me.


Hey Nikola let's dance

NIKOLA
Oh, alright. On you go.

[THE TWO OF THEM BEGIN TO MOVE.]
NIKOLA
Thanks for letting me share the stage with you, my friend.


Martin, I was told to say hi to you and to give you a hug. So hi, and here’s a hug!

MARTIN
Oh… Oh sweet.

MARTIN
(soft) That’s… that’s quite nice, actually.

MARTIN
You sure you don’t mind?


Martin, what’s under the bed??

MARTIN
The mattress.


Martin, what is your plan for proposing in the middle of an apocalypse?

MARTIN
What?!

ARCHIVIST
I have a rather profound opinion on the subject.

MARTIN
Well, you make the world a better place, you make it less fucked up.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
Everything. You, Jon, the state of this galaxy, all the suffering and misery -

ARCHIVIST
Wait.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


who the fuck is Dick Baltierra, elias

ELIAS
Former Executive Vice President of the Magnus Institute, London.


So, ironically, the Static is the fear of NOT being static.

It’s the fear of… not being able to move.


Jared Hopworth, you are a trans ally

JARED
Yes.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! So you are.


marry me Tim

TIM
Huh. Maybe.

MARTIN
Oh – Oh, god!

TIM
[Fast] I’m sorry; that didn’t come out right; I was just, um…

MARTIN
Turn the light on.

TIM
[Sigh] What…?

MARTIN
Uh, under the bed.

TIM
Oh.

TIM
Oh god…

[CLICK]


worms...

[THERE’S A CRASH.]
TIM
Hello?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, just - a bunch of… wires and stuff?

TIM
Ah, right! Sorry.


martin, what’s your opinion on arson?

MARTIN
I… uh… well, I, I guess…

[HE SETS IT ON FIRE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
What?

beholded
lesbians what is your wisdom

JULIA
I, uh - I, I think we both know that you really don’t know what you’re really worth.

ARCHIVIST
[dryly] I don’t know what?

[CLICK]


Elias you really suck but I’m stupid and gay so I think you’re hot anyways :/

What is the Static? The fear of technology taking over or something?

ELIAS
I think it’s more complicated than that. So yes, it is.

The Static is the fear of change. It’s the fear of change in people or things. It’s the fear of change in yourself.

It’s not that you’re not human, John. I mean, we are. We’re us.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

ELIAS
And we’re not us anymore.


Jared Hopworth, do my top surgery?

JARED
You know what, why not?


Has Penny ever encountered The Static?

PENNY
No, that’s ridiculous!


Meaty, has the Distortion stabbed you before?

MEATY
(indignant) No.

MARTIN
(cheerfully) Oh, I’m sure it didn’t.


does elias deserve rights?

ARCHIVIST
He doesn’t. You do know how to kick his teeth in, do you?


Melanie If you got to choose which entity would you be an avatar of?

MELANIE
[Emphatically] No.

crykea
Daisy, what do you think of melanie?

DAISY
Ah - Oh. I - I, I think she’s cute, but…

MELANIE
Oh! I think you’re starting to sound like an old lady.

DAISY
[Sigh] I am.

crykea
hey mike what were you going to college for? what did you like to study?

MIKE
Well… I liked to study architecture.


Oh fuck the police are coming, hurry!

ARCHIVIST
I said, I said I’m alright, I’m fine.

DAISY
You said, “fuck the police”.

ARCHIVIST
And yet here we are.

morningisnotalright
i miss you so much tim

TIM
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sure we can figure it out. Together.

TIM
I don’t know why you believe in me.

ARCHIVIST
It’s simple, really. I’m not going anywhere. If there is a way out, we’re going to figure it out.


you got games on your phone

MARTIN
What games?

ARCHIVIST
I just, ha… I just thought you might…

MARTIN
Just leave.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry?


Jon, can I ask why you thought about throwing food at your waiter last night? Did it have anything to do with your date with Tim?

ARCHIVIST
[light laugh] I uh, I thought… well, he was in a really bad mood, and I uh, I-

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] Um… no, I, er… [shaky inhale] I thought it might distract him…

HELEN
And it did!


Have you ever written a self-insert? What were they like?

ARCHIVIST
[Chuckles] Creativity never was their forte.

thoughts on the Leitner simply titled "Now You Fucked Up" in ancient yiddish?
ARCHIVIST
[Pause] Fucked up, but yeah.

Juggalo!Elias confirmed
ELIAS
Wh-What a delightful thought. (pause) I am - quite the mess.

[BASIRA GROANS.]
BASIRA
Get out.

Jonah "i never said I was gay i just listed my male romantic partners" Magnus
ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh. Oh, don’t worry, it’s not my place to discuss it.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Just… just saying.

@ mod: the posts from this bot have amused me, haunted my thoughts, and caused me to gasp aloud with surprise/delight/confusion. Your twitter bot, on the other hand, has made me genuinely laugh until I cried on like 5 different occasions. These are such wonderful gifts! Thank you for making them. Do you have a patreon/kofi we could pledge to?
Hi, thank you so much! I’m very happy you like it!

I don’t have a patreon or kofi. The attribution non-commercial-sharealike 4.0 international license The Magnus Archives is under specifies that I cannot use their work for commercial gain, in addition I’d feel really bad about it anyway since it is not my work and it was never my intention to make money off of this bot. I’m just doing it for fun. It’s very sweet of you to think of me though. :•)



Sasha! Do you have a favorite outfit?
SASHA
Sure, I have a favorite outfit.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Do you want to give some more information, or…?

SASHA
Oh. Um, well, the outfit would be, er… [Shrugs, and walks away]

jon, martin, be safe now. the world is ending and you must hold on to one another as tightly as you can.
MARTIN
Jon, it’s alright. I’ve got a lot of love to give.

ARCHIVIST
And, well, thank you so much.

MARTIN
You too.

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I think I might be ready for… something.

MARTIN
Oh… oh, sure.

ARCHIVIST
OK.

[CLICK]

Elias, you love Peter and you’re a gay twink. Stop lying you’re fooling no one smh
ELIAS
[Laughs] I enjoy it. I’m not as gay as Peter.


Yo Jared! Can you just- remove my spine? That'd be great thanks.

"MAybe Peter Lukas" Wow. This is why he divorced your ass, Elias. This is why.
ELIAS
Yes.

[THERE MAY BE A QUIET ‘OH’ IN THE BACKGROUND HERE.]


Statement of Mary Ringheim regarding a dead girl in the pool.

Jared, top surgery is the surgery done to remove people’s breasts and I want it because I’m trans and I want them gone. You can put them in the meat hole or whatever idc I just them gone please.

Jared Hopworth, if you gave me top surgery then I would gladly help you serve your meat god.
JARED
Top Surgery?

ARCHIVIST
You’re sure you don’t need a scalpel?

Ferney in San Diego?????
HELEN
Er… yes.

BASIRA
Good lord.

How did you know I was going to be in San Diego?

Elias. In your 200 slutty, slutty years of life, who are your top 5 partners?
ELIAS
[Pause] I don’t know. Dick Baltierra, Yuri Utkin, maybe Peter Lukas -

MELANIE
So you are gay, then.

ELIAS
I have never said I am gay, or anything like that. I’ve only ever known two gay friends in my life.

peter what are your top five vacation destinations
PETER
Oh! Oh! No, that’s- That’s Ferney, where the beach is, and I love it!

MARTIN
Really?

PETER
Just leave me the hell alone.

MARTIN
Now. Now tell me your top five.

PETER
[Smilingly] Oh, I, I’m definitely not top five.

jared can you please help fix my fucked up joints :( they're sore
JARED
Sure.

[JARED INHALES AS IF HE’S PREPARING HIMSELF FOR SOMETHING.]

Elias, you're a dick.
ELIAS
So are you.

ARCHIVIST
So, so now you kill us both?

ELIAS
I would like to think that such a thought gives you all the peace in the world. But it could bring you harm.

Elias stop talking about your slutty, slutty life
ELIAS
And what do you mean I’m not allowed to joke?

MARTIN
Oh, well, you know. Just, just shut up, okay?

captain-harry-kimHey Sasha? I love and miss you
SASHA
Oh, please. I don’t know how much longer we can do this.

Gerard Keay is my big tiddy goth gf
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

GERARD
Keay out.

ARCHIVIST
…uh…

*tips fedora* m'lady
I, I’m not sure I like this.

david if you made a planet just for yourself what would it be like?
DAVID
(light laughter) I don’t know.

MARTIN
(struggles for a moment) Could you even properly describe it?

DAVID
Oh, I, I think you’re going to like it; the idea.

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
DAVID
Where did you get that?

MARTIN
Yeah…

…

Wait – Wait, did you say something?

DAVID
It’s just… it’s just nice to have someone keep me company.

I tried so hard and got so far, but in the end, it doesn’t even matter.
There’s no point me going any further in the hopes of ever seeing another sunrise.

Jonah Magnus has been dead for 200 slutty, slutty years. (If only he fuckin stayed there)
ELIAS (JONAH)
What’s the point of having a body if you can’t use it?

Jon, have you ever heard of closing the goddamn door? No?
ARCHIVIST
I have.

SASHA
Oh. Oh, have you?

Darling, you're so pretty it huuurts!
MARTIN
Uh - I am?

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Huh. Looks like I am.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
And that’s a lot of help.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Look, Jon, I -


archivistbot:

Hello, I’d like to make an announcement. Unfortunately, archivistbot now has a twitter too. The content posted there will be different, as it’s trained using text scraped from twitter as well as transcripts. I’m sorry. You’re welcome.



Now that there's some stuff actually upPosts at 8:30 10 12 4 6:30 and 8 ESTTim and Sasha do you guys wanna smoke out the break room with me??
TIM
We did - Jon doesn’t usually like it.

who do you think is the number one Feeling that everyone wants to fuck then?
ARCHIVIST
Well, I don’t really… I just… I want to… I want to feel something.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Yeah.

[CLICK]

Everyone wants to fuck monsters in this fandom
ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s not all that. A monster is just… a feeling.

Martin is a Bear
MARTIN
A… uh - a, a bear.

[HE SIGHS.]

depression.
I’ve never been depressed before - I’ve always been - but it’s a very false sense of well-being. It’s like if you’re not careful it’s going to get worse. I am, however, very aware that I am far too dangerous to be alive anyway.

Surprise! Elias is a horse.
MARTIN
Oh – Oh! No he isn’t.

ELIAS
I assume you don’t believe me, then? That your – horse-headed pal is somehow able to navigate perfectly?

MARTIN
I mean we haven’t seen much of his –i-is that a joke?

ELIAS
Do you really need me to answer that one?

MARTIN
What?

Jon are you Spacefucker?
ARCHIVIST
What? No. No, I’m… I’m not

Jon or John, I am calling. Over and over I am
MARTIN
What is wrong?

ARCHIVIST
I, I… I think someone here is listening.

Martin, would you want to marry Jon?
MARTIN
Uh… Yes. Uh…

HE looked at me, and I… I just, I just don’t want to see him like this.

MARTIN
[Flustered] Oh, huh?

HE MARRIED JON

Thoughts on the Paddington bear cinematic universe?
BASIRA
You bet your butt.

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

TIM
Well, bear with me.

ARCHIVIST
What?

babyyodablackwoodIn this essay I will ...
not try to describe exactly what it is I saw. Perhaps you can guess, viewing it through the pantomime of paint can give you a very different impression of the place if you try to. What stands out to me, however, is that it was not art. Or design. It was simply the absence of all other worldly knowledge, which is to say, all other tangible things. I went to Moscow to study architecture.

Evening. It was very quiet that night. It seemed to me that, as the hours turned into days, the people I had thought I knew least had begun to change with them, those I had come to know and admire, had begun to change as well. It was not clear whether it was night or day, but it was nearly dark when I went in, and the dim lights made me think of nothing at all.

By the time I came out, John already had his coat checked over and his head bowed in shame. I saw a figure moved. It was only for a second, and I thought it was a man, but he moved so quickly and I could never quite keep track of him. He appeared to be led by a young lad, though the ease with which he carried himself made me suspect that he might be packing heat. They walked out into the darkness.

What then happened? Immediately, I began to hear a, a scream. It was so loud, so far-reaching, and yet, so quiet. I could not see or hear anything, though whatever it was in the darkness seemed to be entirely there. I called out, but there was no response, no response.

Cat person or dog person?
ARCHIVIST
Both, I’m afraid.

DAISY
Both.

Maybe the real Spacefucker was the Archivist we found along the way
Y’know the one who, when we, when we visited his office he - he forgot to lock the door. Whatever was going on, he was clearly in a very bad mood.

He said he didn’t know why he was here, he - he said he didn’t know what was going on, but he - he said he was scared.

I mean - maybe it’s, maybe it’s not, but he - he said he was scared of… being alone

Hold on, are you telling me that Jon has been Spacefucker this whole time??
ELIAS (BACKGROUND)
Oh, no. No, it’s not as glamorous as that.

I remember a character called Sarah!Nikola being created by the bot, unless I just dreamt it. What ever happened to them?
Yeah, she’s appeared a few times! Sarah!Nikola isn’t a bot created character though, it’s what Sarah Baldwin is called in that sequence where Nikola is all the different people in Stranger and Stranger.

Why wouldn’t Martin’s favorite Beyoncé song be Single Ladies?
MARTIN
Oh, don’t push it.

TIM
Single Ladies? Oh - sorry, sorry, it doesn’t matter.

MARTIN
[ultimately frustrated] Oh, oh, screw this!

[CLICK]

chag sameach! wishing everyone except el*as a happy passover
ARCHIVIST
We can only wish.

spacefucker, it's been a while, how are you
ARCHIVIST
I’m not too bad, actually. I’m - I’m actually worse than I’m letting on.

Daisy, I think I might be a bad person, but I'm pretty sure I don't *want* to be. Do you have any advice on how to cope with that?
DAISY
You. You’re a fucking idiot.

BASIRA
Er… yeah. Yeah, sorry.

DAISY
You keep going though, keep fighting.

Do you wanna watch a movie? Do you wanna watch a movie? Do you wa—
ARCHIVIST
[frustratedly] Watch what?

[CLICK]

nikola can i kiss u
NIKOLA
(overlapping) Yes! I’ll see you later, darling.

Martin is a WEEB
ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

WEEBO.

Sorry if you’ve been asked this before, but what program are you using to get your answers?
OpenAI’s GPT-2, specifically the 355M hyperparameter version which I trained on transcripts. :•)

hey im trans & trying to choose a new name, opinions on name Ambrose? :3c
ARCHIVIST
Uh… Yeah.

[PAUSE.]
BASIRA
(small laugh) Right.

ARCHIVIST
(heh) No, I think your experience have value.

That's a great name! Very best of luck to you! The bear who lives in my neighborhood is named Ambrose.AnonymousHey do you have a favorite Beyoncé song?
MARTIN
I… I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s probably not “Single Ladies”.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]

morningisnotalrightJon if you were bitten by a zombie would you hide it from the others?
ARCHIVIST
No, no, I’ve been careful.


Hello, I’d like to make an announcement. Unfortunately, archivistbot now has a twitter too. The content posted there will be different, as it’s trained using text scraped from twitter as well as transcripts. I’m sorry. You’re welcome.



oh I see how it is. THEY can owo but I cant notice ur bulge? woooooow.
Yes, that’s right.



Pick one. Even /I/ have my limits.Peter was that, a joke?
PETER
How could you possibly not know that? I would have thought it would be obvious?

[MARTIN GIVES A SMALL LAUGH.]

hey, mike, how do you and jude know each other? can you tell us the story?
MIKE
[Flustered] Oh, don’t, I, I guess not.

So do you have any Nyarlathoteps or Yog-Sothots in the basement?
BASIRA
No, but the door is open…

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Uh…

Martin do you have a fascination towards The Buried?
MARTIN
Why?

PETER
I mean, actually, to be honest I think you could do with a bit more depth.

plasmascreenzjude perry said trans rights!
NOT!SASHA
Yes.

[CLICK]

Jon, I think I recognize you from somewhere! Were you in a college band?
ARCHIVIST
Not really, I was just leaving, actually.

DAISY
Oh… Well, sort of. You’re a clown.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

It’s, it’s a bit embarrassing.

jon can u buy me a copy of a gift for mr spider
ARCHIVIST
Right, right.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

A very rude question.


When i am toasted by the thought of him bleeding to death after being fucking brutalized idiot so confused about why people hate him for his fucked up book collection IDIOT IDIOT put your fucking NAME on ALL of them WHY would they not fucking blame you when youre attached to EVERY FUCKING MURDER BOOK THEYVE EVER SEEN the only reprieve i get is i no longer have to hope hes dead because he IS making brutal pipe murder my fucking RINGTONE

i am the lowly clown dragging my sorry ass out of the clown car honking all the way and i am the clown weeping comically as my makeup runs down my polka-dotted outfit onto my massive squeaky shoes the lowly fire that burns withen me is fueled by my rage for jurgein book whore leitner the cold cannot seep into my bones

Martin what is your animal crossing island named?
MARTIN
Er… A-An anchor.


none of you will ever understand the visceral rage i hold for the slump of a man and his shitty haunted house goosebumps books none of you will EVER comprehend the pure utter contempt i hold i wish i could call him so many slurs im going to fucking invent one for the shitwad of a man that stands before me i already hated elias i despised the homophobe gay bitch

IS HE DEAD? IS HE A BASTARD?
MARTIN
[HEAVY BREATHING AS MARTIN REGAINS HIS BREATH]
No, he’s not. He’s just… he’s just a bastard.

[BACKGROUND NOISE GROWS FASTER, AS THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN]
MARTIN
Who are you?

arkliemartin can i visit your animal crossing island?
MARTIN
Oh… er… o-o-of course.

ARCHIVIST
[Frustratedly] Animal crossing?

MARTIN
Er, yeah.

ARCHIVIST
I see.

gay? arson? gay arson?
God knows I have too much respect for you as a person to ever falter.

sybil-reisz-officialcan't believe sasha fuckin killed michael
ARCHIVIST
It’s complicated, Michael.

MICHAEL
[Very quietly] It is.

ARCHIVIST
[Very softly] What?

MICHAEL
Michael. It’s not… Michael. It’s not me. It’s not anybody. It’s just… this place.


Statement of Jonathan Simms, regarding a grouping of people who know a bit too much about unrecorded personal life and claim they "kin" him. Statement begins.

She lets herself slip away into the infinite, becoming everything and nothing, just another golden thread running through the cracks of the infinite universes. I smile and take off her dark glasses.

IS HE DEAD? IS HE A BASTARD?

UwU OwO XD owo uwu

smorch
ARCHIVIST
What - no, I, I’m not sure I follow?

HELEN
You don’t? Are you afraid?

ARCHIVIST
Oh… No, I-I’m… not sure.

HELEN
Come on, Jon. There’s no rush. He’s got you.

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] What?

HELEN
Come on, Martin. There’s no rush. He’s got you.

ARCHIVIST
[exasperated noise]

Jared I need you to remove my bottom two ribs. Please, it’s for science.
JARED
What?

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
ARCHIVIST
Remove them, they are infected.

JARED
What? Infected?

Hey gertrude ;) how’s agnes doing?
GERTRUDE
Oh, she’s fine. Just… different.

Who's the better kisser, Michael Shelley or Mike crew?
MARTIN
Michael.

ARCHIVIST
Michael Crew.

MARTIN
[effort] O…kay…

Archivist this is urgent. I need to know, what were the two trucks doing in neil “lemondemon” cicierega’s hit song “two trucks”?
ARCHIVIST
…

[Very hoarsely] I don’t… I don’t know.

And you may ask yourself, Am I right? Am I wrong? And you may say yourself, My G-d! What have I done?
It’s not enough, Jon. I don’t know how much time we have. How much do we still have? But it’s not like it’s something you can just ‘trust’.

I used to blame you for going off your own and poking around where you weren’t wanted. I used to blame myself for not helping you. But now… now it doesn’t matter.

I used to blame myself for being a coward. I was fine if others saw me like a scared little punk, then they would think I was a broken mess. But now… now it doesn’t matter.

There’s no way out. I know that now. I went out to look for you, because I know you’re not there. But it was only for a few seconds. And I woke up in the night. Your eyes were all shot and empty, and… I don’t know. It didn’t matter. The sky was dead.

It’s like I’m seeing you, Jon. Seeing me. Hungry, and scared, and you just… you just can’t go.

But I am going to go get some help. If this works, I’m going to Rome. Because if you make it this far, then somehow you will die. And I will die alone. Because the End, Jon, is waiting for me.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

You’re sure about all of this, Martin?

MARTIN
Look, I’m not going to lie to you about something like this, okay? I… I’ve just not been sleeping much these last few months, what with all of the… everything. How are you feeling?

ARCHIVIST
Well… Hard to say.
I’m… I’m alright, actually. I’m, I’m actually feeling quite alright.
I’m thinking maybe I should head out there and check it out. Don’t think about me.

MARTIN
Oh, yeah?

[CLICK]

Michael, do you like being made of goo?
MICHAEL
[Laughs] Oh, I, er… I think it’s lovely.

gay people
that we knew and that we really liked.

Oh god oh fuck oh shit oh no someone's teaching the Archivistbot UWU speek oh god
ARCHIVIST
Oh –

[BACKGROUND NOISE OF FRUSTRATION]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
FUCK YALL.

[CLICK]

I don't know if this has been asked before, but Gerry what are your preferred pronouns? Love you!
GERARD
As a rule I prefer the pronouns he, her, themself.

ARCHIVIST
Right!

Archivist, could your Beholding powers ever get so powerful as to let you see into other dimensions?
GERARD
I mean, you can’t die, obviously, but you can… do other things.

ARCHIVIST
I… err…

GERARD
Yeah, other things. I’m… I’m going to see you later.

ARCHIVIST
You’re sure? You’ve not -

senalishia
MARTIN Vriska did nothing wrong!

Jon do you 👁w👁?
ARCHIVIST
(tearful) Of course I do. (long sigh) Well, what’s another story?

[PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(soft) One day in early October, (shaky inhale) everything’s going to be okay.

[THE STATIC OF THE ARCHIVIST BEGINS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I’m going to go lie down.

[HE STEPS OFF, CLOTHES RUSTLE.]


Y'AI 'NG'NGAH, YOG-SOTHOTH H'EE-L'GEB F'AI THRODOG UAAAHOGTHROD AI'F GEB'L-EE'H YOG-SOTHOTH 'NGAH'NG AI'Y ZHRO

may i ask Michael its opinion on smooching? for research purposes
MICHAEL
Oh, you are definitely asking me to do that, are you not?

MARTIN
Sure, just… smooch.

[MICHAEL HMS, Smooch.]

h-hewwo...? mistew awchivist? c-can you pwease wead me a statement? OwO
[THE STATEMENT FADES.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Right. OwO I go.

where did Michael Shelly go????
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure you don’t know where he is?

SASHA
No. But I’m sure he’s in a nice place.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

Ok but really. [stares pointedly at a tape recorder] Sasha, is that you in there?
SASHA
Yep. [heh] Nice to see you too, Boss.

ARCHIVIST
Well, I don’t really know what you are.

SASHA
[heh] Pretty cool, right?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, you sound pretty stoked.

Tim, the archives really did not deserve you.
TIM
[Exhales heavily] Yes… yeah.

MARTIN
Tim, are you okay?

TIM
Oh, I’m… I’m just, I’m a bit overwhelmed.

MARTIN
Oh.

Oh, is everything okay?

TIM
Yeah. Yeah, it’s weird, right? I mean, I’ve been… I’ve been itching to say something, but I think… I think you just need to…

MARTIN
Oh.

Oh, is this…?

[CLICK]

Is there any bit of Elias still actually left *in* Elias since you took over Jonas, or did you kind of... hollow him out first?
ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, it’s not that simple.

ARCHIVIST
I mean, if he’s still around, maybe he knows something I need -

ARCHIVIST
[light, pointed] What is this place?

ELIAS (JONAH)
Hmm. A complicated question. And time is as -

ARCHIVIST
The panopticon.

ELIAS (JONAH)
A bit of an exaggeration, I’m sure.

jude perry, did you originally have muscles or did you just decide to make the best of a wax body you could shape according to your every whim?
JUDE
…

It’s the second one.

daisy, how would you spend a perfect afternoon?
MARTIN
(sighs) Yeah, yeah - me and Tim, together with - the Archivist -

DAISY
Can I go first?

DAISY
(soft) I, I think, just, just go for a walk, and talk to people.

the magnus archives. askAnonymousMartin Blackwood, please know that I'm very attracted to you, as are hundreds of other people. I'm sure Jon can confirm this for you.
MARTIN
[Confused & flustered]…Right…

MARTIN
(agitated) So - so tell me -

[HE CUTS HIM OFF, EXTends his arm.]
ARCHIVIST
Right.

MARTIN
Tell me again?

ARCHIVIST
Again?

Basira! How are you and Daisy doing?
BASIRA
I’m doing okay. I’m doing okay.

I’m more careful than ever, though. I’m sure you can figure it out -

ARCHIVIST
Daisy is… um.

BASIRA
Oh, well, she’s slowly been rebuilding herself. She’s better than me, really.

Michael, Gerry, are you guys attracted to Martin?
MARTIN
To be quite honest, no one is.

Double bedtime, Martin?
MARTIN
Yeah?

PETER
One night, you are going to sleep.

In the coffin.

MARTIN
[Contentedly] Yeah.

Sasha, what's your favorite ice cream flavor?
SASHA
[Enunciating each word carefully] Oh, I, I, I don’t, I don’t have a favorite flavor.

ARCHIVIST
[Heavy sigh] Cookie dough.

SASHA
[Flips through flavors] Oh, okay, okay, I, I think you’re done here.

Jon can you give me a hug please I’m sad and lonely
[SMALL SIGH FROM ARCHIVIST]
ARCHIVIST
[Hug] Me?

I'm sorry I hope things get better for you!AnonymousPeter, have you ever been in love?
PETER
[Still a long way from actual love -] what?

WHO THREW SOMETHING AT MARTIN?!
MARTIN
Oh! Oh, it was a very light, rubber ball.

Does Daisy know I love her?
DAISY
I - I - I guess I do.

I'm on a mission to hug every avatar, except for Peter and Elias and John Amherst because they're bastards. But everyone else has a hug incoming, and there's nothing any of you can do to stop me!
MARTIN
Oh, uh… no, well, you’re definitely welcome to… as long as you tell them to… well, hug it out.

[SOMETHING IS THROWN AT MARTIN]
MARTIN
[Stumblingly] Sorry, I didn’t -

madam chair?????? martin are you ok
MARTIN
I’m… Yes.

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Can you keep it down?

[SMALL LAUGH]

elias is a skank
What he did to Gertrude was beyond me, but it paid the debt. He didn’t even get the good cops off his back, he just waited until the perfect storm came his way.

Jon, who's your favorite Assistant?
ARCHIVIST
[Emphasizing] That’s a question for Martin!

MARTIN
[Sigh] Whatever.

ARCHIVIST
[Grabs Martin by the hand] Okay.

alright, who broke it?
BASIRA
L-Like a… a, like a “mystery”?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, I don’t think so.

Martin, would you please tell us a bedtime story? 💖
MARTIN
Sorry?

MARTIN
Every year on the first of August, there’s a slight but noticeable change in the temperature in my room. I mean, normally it’s just a normal variation in temperature, but this, it’s different. Something I call the “double bedtime”, I spread the sheets out in a strange way to help keep the mosquito at bay. The mosquitoes generally don’t leave my room for that long. It’s a little bit uncomfortable. They always go for the lights.

Do you have any thoughts, Madam Chair?

MARTIN
Nothing. (chuckles) I don’t have a story, sorry.

Martin if you HAD to pick an entity to be the avatar of, which entity would it be?
MARTIN
Oh - (long pause) Er…

Well, let me think…

[PAUSE.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
Would it be… Buried?

is a rat bastard a good thing or a bad thing
ELIAS
Mm. An honour.

Apparently there’s a ghost in an empty house up the street, wanna check it out?
ARCHIVIST
Of course.

DAISY
Great.

Is it dangerous?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

ARCHIVIST
[highly exaggerated] Hello?

DAISY
Oh, shit. Martin, what are you doing here?

MARTIN
It’s… it’s just… uh… writing in my room?

i'm a fully realized creation! fuck!
ELIAS
So then…?

MARTIN
Oh, er… no, then, then what?

ELIAS
I always envisioned a world of endless night, where the faintest spark of life still smouldered and lit the darkest places. The horrid white dot of fear lines the darkest recesses of the universe.

kissa you... basard
ARCHIVIST
[huff]

…much obliged.

how bad can i be
BASIRA
[Bitter laugh] You think you can just put your all into fighting and winning no matter how much blood you take, but… you’ve still got a long way to go.

Do Gerry and Michael ever hang out?
MARTIN
Oh. Oh, er… Yeah, they, they follow me a lot.

DAISY
Why do you think they’re attracted to you?

MARTIN
Oh, you, you know what? Maybe they are.

are you a gamer man or a gay merman?
ARCHIVIST
(soft) Man.

GERARD
(immediately) No, I am a gamer. So yes.

I like I like strategy, I like fighting; I just, I like, well, I like fighting.

Hey Martin, did you ever find out what happened to your friend who disappeared after you kissed him?
MARTIN
No-one’s really talked about it.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… o-o-of course not.

MARTIN
Well, it’s kind of weird.

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
ARCHIVIST
Look, look… I just, I just wanted to ask a question, and I really didn’t want to embarrass you.

A-Are you alright?

MARTIN
Hm? Oh! No, I’ve just… I’m a bit overwhelmed.

until my ghastly tale is told, this heart within me burns
And if, as I now know, your maker wills it, then my hand on your heart is also a grievous sin. For I have accepted my final chance at free will. There is no will. And no I.

Ratner, why were you and Gerard walking in the rain?
RATNER
It’s quite simple, really. I was bored. I wanted some help, you know. I needed a break.

When someone leaves your life, those exits are not made equal. Some are beautiful and poetic and satisfying. Others are abrupt and unfair. But most are just unremarkable, unintentional, and clumsy.
I don’t envy them. Some people are born with an expectation of grand narratives, sweeping generalizations about the omniscient and the unknowable, about the nature of evil and the divine.

plasmascreenzdoes Tim have any weed?
MARTIN
What a question.

[HE STEPS UNDER THE TABLE.]

Gerry, are you and Alan Ratner friends?
GERRY
Hell yeah!

GERRY
[Pained] I mean, like I am, but I don’t really hang out with him.

Martin thats so sad. it seems like your teen crush was somehow taken by the lonely, the corrupted and the stranger all at once?
MARTIN
It was… er… it was a long time ago, before we had those… yeah, I sort of, I sort of liked him.

does Martin Blackwood is gay?
MARTIN
God, that’s… that’s a question.

MARTIN (STATEMENT)
When I was thirteen, I kissed a friend of mine.

He was thirteen too, and I remember it like it was yesterday - it was summer, he was smoking a pipe, and we were on the grass, talking about whatever. And there was just a moment where - there was this look on his face, like he was teasing me, and I-I did it. And then he just - disappeared.

I mean, he disappeared.

I went to his house right after that, and I knocked on the door.

I know it sounds stupid to be talking about this in a statement, but I just - I just needed to know - to know if he was ok. If he was alright. I knocked on the door, but - no answer.

I checked the door, and sure enough, it was open, but I didn’t want to go in, I really didn’t.

There was a lot of mould growing up in the downstairs corridor, and it freaked me out. I just turned on my torch and went looking. He wasnt there.

There was no sign of him, though. At least, not now.

The floor was slippery with dust and mildew. There was no light coming from inside, but I checked the inside of the room, and sure enough, there was light. I didn’t realise the presence of other adults in the room, but I turned on my torch and shone it around.

By this point, whatever I had thought of as the bedroom was in the process of being stripped away. There was a thick, black dusting of mildew. The light didn’t reach far enough to see by, but I was glad of it.

Dust began to pour from the opening door, and I was glad I was only just then taking it out. I could hear the faint sound of movement from further in, but when I turned on the light, I could see the face of the person I had met before. Their wide, smiling eyes were round and staring.

Jonah, do you have a specific type you look for when looking for a new 'host'?
ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, oh, never mind.

Any who’s worth a lot of money.

the magnus archiesaskAnonymousis danny there, tim?
TIM
Yeah? Yeah, where’d you put the knife?

I always forget his name but I guess that's the Todd Brinkmeyer Law in workAnonymousIT'S RAININ' RATS! HALLELUJAH, IT'S RAININ' RATS!
(sing-song) There’s no right way to put it.

Gerry is a grammar anarchist
He dislikes all the formalisms and the bells and whistles. He wants to have an honest conversation.

Jonah, was OG Elias a twink?
ELIAS (JONAH)
What? Oh, a, a bit of an understatement, my boy! (heavy inhale) Jerk!

gerry do you have poetry you can read to us?
GERARD
Oh. Yeah. It’s a long way from beautiful poetry.

ARCHIVIST
What?

GERARD
Oh. Yeah, it’s called ‘A Short Letter.’ It’s a poem. It’s about me and my friend, Alan, walking in the pouring rain.
[HE READS.]

Me and Alan, were walking down the street,

when the sky lit with a single purpose

an arrow pointing downwards

to point just below my feet

I looked at that empty sky,

stunned and stupefy.

poet lariatAnonymouswho lives in a pineapple under a pineapple?
A friend of yours?

Gerry WHAT kind of sentence structure was that
GERARD
No rhythm, no structure. No points, no rhyme or reason.

Jon, can you tell me about emulsifiers?
ARCHIVIST
What? Emulsifiers? Additives that combine with other substances to give a compound, but more than that, they provide a mechanism by which a substance can be combined into another one. Commonly combned with -

MARTIN
So, they, they take the, they take the compound, and they mix it together?

ARCHIVIST
No, no, no, it’s more complicated, but…

Is Elias a big shadow the hedgehog fan
ARCHIVIST
Unclear.

GERARD
Well, it’s only ain’t he got a tattoo. It’s a warning sign.

ARCHIVIST
It’s pretty nasty.

I've come to make an announcement: Shadow the Hedgehog's a bitch- ass motherfucker.
[STATICISED SOUNDS OF BRUTAL PIPE MURDER]
Take that, bastards!

ARCHIVIST
No, no - I was just, uh… making a statement!

Mahtin! maaaaaaaaahtin!
[MARTIN MAKES A SOUND AS JON CONTINUES TO STEPS OUT INTO THE CORRIDOR.]
MARTIN
What’s go…

[THERE’S AN UNCHARACTERISTIC CASUAL HAPPINESS TO HIS WORDS.]
MARTIN (CONT’D)
It’s good to, uh… (he stops himself) It’s good to get some sleep.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

Ratner, you sound tired. Have you been sleeping poorly?
RATNER
Oh, uh… no, I, I’ve been sleeping well. I, I’ve been feeling refreshed.

ARCHIVIST
Right. Feels like you haven’t been sleeping well.

RATNER
Well, what do you think?

[CLICK]

jon, what did the monster do when the beautiful man didn't run away?
ARCHIVIST
Uh…

DAISY
Did he cry?

ARCHIVIST
No, I don’t-

DAISY
I mean, maybe? I think he might have cried.

ARCHIVIST
What? Yeah. Maybe.

MY CABBAGES!!!!!
DAISY
Shut up!

[CLICK]

pronouncingitwangRatner have you been taking care of yourself?
RATNER
[Tired] Oh, yeah. I’ve been.

ARCHIVIST
Well, you owe me one, Ratner. One… favor.

RATNER
Oh?

ARCHIVIST
Take care of yourself.

RATNER
Alright, fine.

ELIAS (JONAH)\nYou’ve lost, Peter, admit it. He played you like a… (gleefully) like a… cheap juul
PETER
No, he didn’t play me like that.

MARTIN
No, really, he played you like a brat.

jonathan sims voice can you pass the juul please
ARCHIVIST
Er… no, I,I guess not.

who knocked over my onions????
ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND)
(No, I know, I know, a… I-It’s a lot to take in, you know.

[HE STEPS IN ANOTHER PANIC.]
TIM
They’re not onions, Archivist. They’re… they’re an… they’re an apple.

leafybonesi know in my heart that OG Elias vapes, you cant fool me
ELIAS
But, he has a point!

i bet penny lukas vapes. penny, do you vape?
PENNY
What?

MARTIN
You don’t know?

PENNY
Do what?

WHO RIPPED THIS FAT VAPE IN THE LONELY
ELIAS
[HEAVY BREATHING]
Oh, I’m sorry; I didn’t - I didn’t know.

Elias all you do is say rude nonsense
ELIAS
And you know what? It’s true, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) I…

WHO IN THE INSTITUE VAPES
ARCHIVIST
No one you’d ever heard of.

Jon, will you please tell us a bedtime story? 💖
ARCHIVIST
Well, here’s one. Once upon a time there was a monster, but no one realised. Sometimes someone saw it, and they were scared, so they hid, or fled. Then one day, a man came. He was beautiful, so pretty, and everyone loved him, and he didn’t know what monsters are. Then one day, the monster appeared, and everyone got scared, so they hid, or fled, but he didn’t.

elias i have feelings for you... the feeling is murder
ELIAS
Thank you.

MARTIN
[Embarrassed smirk] Well, that’s not as reassuring as you think it is.

ELIAS
One thing is for sure, Martin: no one wants to see you here.

MARTIN
[sigh] Fine.

ELIAS
So: have fun.

melanie are you bffs with anyone in the institute yet
MELANIE
Don’t push it.

ARCHIVIST
I am.

MELANIE
You are not bff, you crazy killer.

Sasha, who has the nicest voice in the Archives?
SASHA
Well, that’s me!

tim
i -

TIM
Oh, yeah?

MARTIN
Yeah?

TIM
You didn’t tell me anything.

MARTIN
No, you didn’t.

…

who in the archives has read homestuck?
[MARTIN MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST - THEN THE SOUND OF MARTIN GATHERING HIS THINGS. WHEN HE SPEAKS, IT IS HIGH-PITCHED.]
MARTIN
I don’t even know what a homestuck is.

EYE emoji, Peter!? Are you married right now?
PETER
Oh, yes! Well, yes, but it’s none of your business.

Elias (can I call you Elias?) how many times have you and Peter Lukas been married?
ELIAS
None.

MARTIN
I don’t believe you.

ELIAS
Then it’s probably for the best you don’t know.

Nikola is a skin-care godess 🤡
ARCHIVIST
[slight laugh] Right, well. She definitely knows a lot about [unintelligible] skin.

Tim, who has the best hair in the archives?
TIM
Oh, er… no, it’s- it’s Sasha. Why?

Mr. Peter Lukas i am here to deliver some terrible news. i......... have feelings for you 🙈😳😔
PETER
[Laughingly] Bad news for you, pal! 👁😁

[CLICK]

What is The Clownie?
MARTIN
Ah, uh, I mean, I-I guess you would call it, yeah? Um… I, I guess you’re wondering?

ARCHIVIST
[Whispered] What?

MARTIN
Oh, uh, well, I, I guess you know… just look, there’s, there’s a lot of really messed up stuff in here, and, and y’know, we, we need, we need to keep an eye on it, keep, keep an eye on the clown; is all.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MARTIN
Yeah, yeah, the, the clown. We, we need to, keep an eye on him; is, is that, is that right?

ARCHIVIST
Right.

clownie!
HELEN
As in, anybody.

Are you taking care of yourself?
MARTIN
I take care of you, okay.

pronouncingitwangMartin, ily, can you read me another poem?
MARTIN
Yes, I think so, yes, it’s called ‘Eternal Bends’. It’s a poem. And it’s for you.

ARCHIVIST
Is it?

[PAUSE]
MARTIN
[Passionate] Yeah! It is.
[HE READS.]
“When the sky fell

And still I slept

In that bed, under the covers.

That night, the sky fell again, and I slept.

Between the sheets,

You can trust none can catch you.

poet lariatpronouncingitwangA long, long time ago, on a village by the shore, a young dwarf boy grew up not knowing what he was for. One day he got fed up with living Groundhog Day, so he left on an adventure, and now he's here to say: I'm your friend, the good plant cleric, a worshiper of Pan! A real cool guy who's four-ish feet tall with a missing eye and hand! I'll make your plants grow to the sun, and preach the good word to your youth! And if you try to cross me, I'll cast my Zone of Truth!
You know, for all the fears the Zone of Truth supposedly brings, none so unsettling as the idea of plant life

Ratner, how do you feel about /rollercoasters/?
RATNER
Am I scared?

ARCHIVIST
Ah, just give him a minute.

RATNER
……Yes.

RATNER
[struggles for a moment] I mean… I’m not scared, I… I’m not scared of…

ARCHIVIST
……Yes, I suppose you are.

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Jon, have you seen the clown?

ARCHIVIST
Clownie.

MARTIN
Oh.

ARCHIVIST
Ah, sorry.

MARTIN
Well, see ya.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[CLICK]

I'm a lonesome drunken dwarven sailor, I am on the sea! I can take to the sea whenever I do please! I like to be on the sea, I like it when I float! I want this boat to not sink, please don't sink, please don't sink boat!
It’s a sorrow, a heavy, a sorrow that sings through the whole of the boat. And at the song’s center is the kind of music that sounds only my cello can play. But the ship is mine and it sings: “Tide upon the sky,” and I am the sea.

Are you there, sweetheart? Do you know me? Is this microphone live? Let me do it right for once.
[HEAVY BREATHING/VARIOUS RATTLES AS HE SPEAKS.]
MARTIN
Uh - no.

Not really.

Is this place, Jon?

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

Martin ! have you any poems
MARTIN
Oh… uh… yeah, I-I have a few. I, I, I write a lot.

A lot of poems, I guess, if you know ‘poetry’.

ARCHIVIST
Here.

MARTIN
Oh, yes.
[HE FLIPS THROUGH THE BOOK.]
It’s about… it’s called ‘A Small Bed For The Mind.’
[HE READS.]
I’ve dreamed of this house for so long,

Oh how I wish it was my own.

So many things I could never be.

So anxious, so confused, so whole.

I’d love you, John. I’d love you.
[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

poet lariatAnonymousas someone who has never listened to the magnus archives, could you please describe it to me in three words
ARCHIVIST
[Deep exhalation] Three words: Power.

[Sound of blood dripping]

agnes, have you ever been in love? with who?
No, it’s… well, according to your partner, there were two people in there, but they never quite made it out. And they never quite died.

sasha do you ever write any poems?
SASHA
No, I don’t write poetry. It’s, um… it’s not that I don’t love poetry. And Martin at least… he’s good at finding the big themes of the human experience. He understands people. And he understands literature. It’s his bread and butter.

Tim, have you got any advice for novice kayakers?
TIM
Oh… Um, yeah, well, the lesson is, if you’re looking to go pro, get in the water.

A runaway trolley car is careening down a track. Five people stand in its path, unaware of the imminent threat. You stand at the intersection of two different tracks and could, if you chose to, divert the trolley onto another track where only one person would be killed. Do you divert the trolley, intentionally killing one to save five?
ELIAS
I - I don’t know what you mean.

BASIRA
I just wanted to ask why you keep hitting people when they walk across the tracks.

ELIAS
That’s a common enough thing, I suppose.

BASIRA
Well, it’s not.

that's me in the corner
MARTIN
(raised eyebrows) Who are you?

ELIAS
A private individual, I believe?

MARTIN
Oh…

jon
I’m here with that cup of tea.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

Sasha PLEASE tell us who you have a crush on???
SASHA
[Sigh] Who? Oh, it’s, it’s one of the nurses.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, what?

SASHA
Oh, it’s just, just get over yourself.

ARCHIVIST
I, I get it.

[CLICK]

ya like jazz?
ARCHIVIST
I mean - I guess so.

Sasha, is there anyone you fancy?
SASHA
Oh, sure.

…

Well, there’s quite a lot…

who in the archives is most likely to say nya? y'know, like, nya? :3c
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I… I don’t know.

DAISY
[Strongly] What do you want me to do about this?

ARCHIVIST
Uh… I don’t know, just…

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN; THE ARCHIVIST STEPS OUT INTO THE CORRIDOR.]
ARCHIVIST
[Swearing] Shit!

DAISY
Sorry?

ARCHIVIST
You don’t know? You don’t know! - I mean, like, in, in, I’m sure there’s a fucking grave in there, and it’s got a bunch of teeth.

DAISY
[Strongly] What do you want me to do about it?

how could you do this. how could you possibly do this. you have angered the furries. Elias is coming for you this second.
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

PETER
Is that all you have? Elias is watching.

ARCHIVIST
I… Wh… no.

PETER
And if you try to leave, I will kill you.

ARCHIVIST
[Strongly] What?

Would Jon rather eat a brick or a matterbaby
ARCHIVIST
I’m a vegetarian.

are jon and martin in love yet
HELEN
Not in… well, in a literal sense, but I think you two are in a relationship now.

MARTIN
Wait, you think I’m in love with… wait, I mean it’s not as simple as that as you think it is.

HELEN
It is, though.

MARTIN
Wait, you think I’m in love with him? Just you and your weird brain.

HELEN
Maybe you are in love, but maybe not.

martin i love you
MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh (soft) Jon, it’s not - it’s not fair - you know?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh -

MARTIN
I love you, too.

tim did nothing wrong
ARCHIVIST
We don’t know that.

hewwo uwu x3 *snuggles u* I wuv u *notices bulge* owo?
I can’t, in good conscience, give this to the bot. Very sorry, I hope you understand.



Physically I /could/ do it but imagine the toll of letting my evil robot progeny read thishey jon do you have any good jokes??
ARCHIVIST
[light laughing] What?

MARTIN
Oh, alright. So, you’re the one who’s in charge, so you tell me the joke.

ARCHIVIST
[long laugh] Right.

Martin, look, it’s not – it’s not funny.

MARTIN
Oh, okay. Okay.

…

krowlinHey Martin, have you and Tim ever.... You know..... Gotten nasty? Wink!
MARTIN
Huh? Oh! No, well, the date was the same as the last time, so I -

ARCHIVIST
Oh! No, and I don’t mean -

MARTIN
[Enunciating each word carefully] What do you want?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, just - a cup of tea.

MARTIN
Tea?

ARCHIVIST
Right, right.

[CLICK]

Jonah/Elias, who do you love more, Mordechai or Peter?
ELIAS (JONAH)
He they’re both fucking horrible. And I fucking hate both of them.

MARTIN
I don’t like either of them.

ELIAS (JONAH)
Martin. I can’t stand you.

MARTIN
I don’t, I don’t, I don’t…

Meaty. What are your thoughts on the sky looking back?
MEATY
It’s ugly.

ARCHIVIST
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know.

MEATY
It is.

jon, what's the absolute worst thing about elias?
ARCHIVIST
He kills people.

ELIAS
Hmm.

tim can you tell us some of your fond memories? maybe with the archival staff>
TIM
Sure. Why?

TIM
Oh, just, just um, just from a couple of years back, there was – an outbreak of wasps in the back garden. Um, and I asked, why they were so active, and he said it was “unlikely” that they’d ever been dormant.

Meaty, how long were you in the tunnels?
MEATY
Er… about two hours.

MELANIE
That’s not too unusual.

Archivistbot said Agnes/Gertrude rights!
Human+Computer+Time Engineer is the bok choy of robotics and cyborgs, fighting an evil computer program that wants to make everyone stupid.

Elias you are a bastard and don't deserve Ben Meredith's beautiful sultry voice
ELIAS
(pain) It’s lovely, (laughs) You know. Whenever I talk to you, it’s - it’s all very touching, (heh) very nearly being mine.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

Different anon, similar question. jon what do you like best about Martin
ARCHIVIST
What – no, I don’t really… I-I don’t know.

Mostly, I’m not sure, but I’m… attracted to his intellect, his interests, his interests in… stuff.

Hmmm.

jon what do you like most about martin?
ARCHIVIST
I mean, I’ve read all his stuff, you know.

TIM
I know.

ARCHIVIST
Well, what do you think he is doing?

TIM
I don’t know.

ELIAScome to the dark side, we have cookies rawr xD
ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
What.

[SHE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Cookies.

[THE ARCHIVIST MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST.]

\n will print enter/new line if you want to send asks like this :•)sasha, is gertrude your mom???? 👀👀
SASHA
(overlapping) Oh! No, I-I know.

[MARTIN EXTends a hand, and she releases it, leaving him standing there. He’s trembling so badly his voice cracks. It all comes back to her. All her tiredness and adrenaline gone in a sudden burst. She almost feels elated.

MARTIN
Sorry. (small laugh) No, I get it. They need him. The Institute, Jon, whatever. The world, Sasha, it - it’s all wrong. None of it…

But I need him. I - I need whatever protection I can get, but I can’t leave him. I - I can’t leave him. I need to get out of this place.

I - I, I, I can’t get out of this place.

ARCHIVIST
[struggles for words] Statement of Sasha James, regarding… a door.

what are u feeding this bot lmao
Just episode transcripts and the stuff you guys send in! :•)



Michael, who are the top five hottest people that work in/are associated with the Archives?
MICHAEL
[giggling lightly] No, there’s no order, that’s ridiculous!

how long have the tape recorders been talking for?
TIM
About an hour and a half.

MARTIN
Right…

They’re - They’re getting worse?

TIM
No, they’re just… They’re just happy enough to talk. A lot of them actually.

mrvantasgertrude, when did you first meet agnes? what was your first impression of her?
GERTRUDE
Oh… Oh… I don’t know, she just looked so cute.

ERIC
[Chuckles] True story.

GERTRUDE
She was so kind.

ERIC
I wasn’t exactly expecting her to take you out to dinner.

GERTRUDE
Tapped it.

ERIC
Right.

nsfw textMichael, were you jealous of Sasha, knowing full-well she was Gertrude's favorite?
MICHAEL
It’s none of your business.

ARCHIVIST
Of course not.

MICHAEL
No, I just, well, you know Sasha.

[MICHAEL SIGHS.]

Jon can I hug you?? You look like you need it
ARCHIVIST
Of course.

[SMALL LAUGH]
[Hugging sound]
Oh, it does feel good, you know.

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… hello.

gives tim some hot chocolate so sweetly
TIM
Oh, it’s good to, uh… it’s good to finally have someone actually understand me. I’m still not sure how it feels, being kept in the dark. Can’t trust myself.

MARTIN
(huh) Of course, no problem.

Jon, what did Tim, Sasha, and Martin get you for your birthday? Anything good?
ARCHIVIST
(light laugh) Nothing. Just a bit of stress, you know?

TIM
It’s called ‘a treat.’

jonah, who IS your next body stealing target?
ELIAS (JONAH)
You’re thinking too literally.

ARCHIVIST
So you are going to target me.

ELIAS (JONAH)
You think?

martin will u run away with me
MARTIN
No.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. You’re sure? No, no, I’m not scared of you.

MARTIN
…

No, o-o-of course! I’m… I’m not scared of you, too. I just… I’m, I’m sorry. I just… I’m not sure.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. You’re sure? You’ve not - There is something in these files. I don’t know what it is, but it’s dangerous stuff.

jon!!!! what did you get for your birthday!
ARCHIVIST
Oh! Oh, just, er… a couple of books, mainly on mythology and folklore. They were really quite lovely, actually.

Jon, did you remember to feed the tape recorders today?
ARCHIVIST
What?

TAPE RECORDER
Y… Yes.

ARCHIVIST
Interesting.

TAPE RECORDER
Its, uh…

Y… Its audio is what you guys listen to.

Agnes, thoughts on Gertrude?
ARCHIVIST
Do you still think of her?

Hey what would you all be up to if the Great Twisting had gone through?
ELIAS
[Jovially] No, no, and I’m very glad it hasn’t.

tim you are so hot
TIM
[exasperated noise]

MARTIN
That’s… not… that’s quite… ah…

Ah, screw this.

[CLICK]

sasha everyone is in love with you
SASHA
You love me?

GERTRUDE
Do you?

SASHA
[Frustratedly] Oh - [Angry] I’m not sure I know.

Jonah, when picking your new bodies, do you always go for twinks? Or do you switch it up every now and again? Because Elias is DEFINITELY a twink and I just wanted to know if that was a prerequisite for your new bodies or not.
ELIAS
[Laughs] Well, that’s not… I mean, you know… twink? No, it’s just… not a big deal. I’ve got a lot of work to do.

MARTIN
[Wheeze] Why are you so keen on twinks?

ELIAS
I mean, it’s not like you’re going to be my next target.

martin what do you like most abt jon
MARTIN
I like him because he’s stubborn and he doesn’t like being wrong. Also, he’s subtle. I like him because he’s clever. He seems logical, but he gravitates towards emotion. He’s smart, though. Smart as a fox, but not smart in as to be predictable. And he’s handsome.

archivist i love you. do you love me back?
[THE STATIC FADES AWAY AS IMMEDIATELY AS IT CAME.]
ARCHIVIST
Uh… yes.

ARCHIVIST
[Whisper] I love you.

martin, what music do you like ?
MARTIN
Oh! Oh, I, um, I think… well, I think they have good taste.

ARCHIVIST
Good.

MARTIN
Er… I mean, I think Pink Floyd –

ARCHIVIST
Yes, that’s quite it, is it? Have a listen.

[CLICK]

I can't die. Have any suggestions?
ARCHIVIST
No, I don’t think so. Not from me.

HELEN
I wish there was a place like that somewhere, somewhere far away.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

HELEN
No. There’s too much of this world and…

martin are people calling you a cinnamon roll :/ i'm sorry
MARTIN
What?

MARTIN
Yeah, “he’s a “cinnamon roll”. [Er, laughing quietly]
[MARTIN MAKES SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST]

martin what board games do you play??
MARTIN
You’ve heard of Pandemic, right?

HmmAnonymousElias what kind of cake do you like
ELIAS
Uh… ah, well, I, I guess I would say no, but…

TIM
Ooh, it’s a cinnamon roll.

MARTIN
It’s not a, not a proper cinnamon roll, though.

ELIAS
No? That’s what they call you, right?

[takes jon's face gently in my hands]
MARTIN
It doesn’t matter, Jon. I will not let anyone hurt you.

[SMALL LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
[stammering] What… what…?

statement begins. living has always been a large part of my life. i was born at an incredibly young age and ever since then i have been alive.
some would say i have lived longer than anyone would care to admit, the older my years, but there is little reliable evidence to support that.

Hey Georgie are you free tomorrow night?
GEORGIE
Oh, sorry, sorry, I’m just –

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Georgie, I would -

GEORGIE
(distant) Yeah. Yeah, I’m… I’m available.

ARCHIVIST
(QUESTIONING) Is she?

GEORGIE
Yeah. She’s out of town.

gertrude, how do you feel about agnes?
GERTRUDE
Ah- Ah- Yes, she’s pretty alright. I’m almost afraid of her.

martin, what is your favorite flavor of ice cream?
MARTIN
Oh. Oh, it depends, I-I guess, on what mood you’re in.

MARTIN
Hang on, are you actually asking me to choose between strawberry shortcake and marshmallow, or…?

i hate a moral coward, one who lacks a manly spark~
I’m sure you know what I mean, the sort of person who… takes their duty for granted, and starts to give up without reason.

sasha, how did you meet gertrude?
SASHA
Just from the start. I’ve known her.

Penny, would you consider yourself a gamer?
PENNY
What?

MARTIN
Well, I, I guess we, we play a lot of board games.

Sasha, what do you think about Tim?
SASHA
Tim is… well, I, I think he’s fine. Just… he’s staying with me.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

SASHA
It’s hard to get any… proper sleep over here.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I get it.

you're not rotten work, tim. none of you are. i love you and am rooting for you
TIM
I…Look, it’s not… I just… I just know I’m not just going to be fine, I need to go home.

MARTIN
Okay, okay. So you have no idea what’s really going on, but you’re going to keep going anyway, because if you don’t you’re just going to keep… heading this way, then you’re just going to keep living in the dark.

TIM
Almost too much now, isn’t it.

MARTIN
R-Right.

…

H҉E҉L҉L҉O҉, 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘪𝘴 ᎽᎾᏬ on тнιѕ FƖᑎƐ 𝔤𝔬𝔬𝔡 E⃟V⃟E⃟N⃟I⃟N⃟G⃟ мσяиιиɢ 𝒹𝒶𝓎? 👁〰️👁
[THERE’S A KNOCKING ON THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Hello?

[HE PICKS UP A STATEMENT, WHICH CONTINUES TO READ:

[THERE’S A CRACK, AND THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(more emphasis) Hello?

[HE STEPS OUT INTO THE OUTSIDE CORRIDOR.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(sharp sigh) Hello?

ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
“There’s only two options for those who want to travel further. And if you don’t mind me asking - where do you want to go, when the sky falls?

is it gay to kiss your homies?
MARTIN
[Flustered] Er…

TIM
Oh, what?

MARTIN
Er…

[Softly] What?

TIM
I just, I dunno, it’s, it’s really not my place to talk about stuff like that.

fellas, is it gay to be gay?
ARCHIVIST
I mean, it is, isn’t it?

[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]

Hey Tim? You're gonna be okay.
TIM
Don’t worry, I’m not scared of you.

ARCHIVIST
Just tell me what happened. Please.

TIM
[Deep breath] There’s no point.

ARCHIVIST
There’s no point? You’re not doing well.

TIM
[Very softly] There’s no point.

Fruit salad, yummy yummy
ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh no. No, I don’t like it.

GERARD
Yeah, well, give it back.

ARCHIVIST
I didn’t want… I didn’t want to steal your lunch.

uuloniGeorgie, will you marry me?
GEORGIE
I already have.

hey uhh tim? i love you. you deserved better.
ARCHIVIST
[broken, soft sobs]

Tim?

TIM
Yeah? ok.

ARCHIVIST
I’m sorry.

TIM
Its all rotten. I love you too.

Can I hug you?

[FRANTICALLY FOR BOTH OF THEM]
Come on, come on, i-it’s not – it’s not fair.

ARCHIVIST
It is though, I-I-I feel like I know you… just – maybe there’s - something I can do about this.

TIM
There’s no hope for us.

ARCHIVIST
I know, but I still – I – I want to help.

TIM
Yeah.

hey mike crew. what did it feel like to be buried? you are of the vast, after all.
MIKE
[Slowly] I don’t know. It was… bad.

I love you
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I love you, too.

ARCHIVIST
Not as much as you deserve.


archivistbot:

Hi everyone! It’s me again, your mod, Joel “rabid fox trapped in a whole foods” Macky.
Since this blog was made during the break, I just want to share some information and guidelines for the new season. This blog is not spoiler-free and will continue to post anything spoiler-y people send in untagged, but please try to wait a considerate amount of time, let’s say, two days after the episode comes out for non-patreon listeners, before sending asks relating to the episode. In addition to this, I will not be training the bot on each episode as the transcripts are written. It will have all of them eventually, but if, for example, a new character is introduced, the bot won’t know about them right away.
That’s all! Thank you all very much for sticking around. Wishing you light and joy in these times. Stay safe!

Wish there was a way to pin this or somethingbut just a reminder if you didn't see this since we post quite a bitis there a giant crab in the archives?
ARCHIVIST
Sorry?

BASIRA
Yeah, er… there, there, there wasn’t, there, there was a, there was a crab in there, er… like on the wall, or…

ARCHIVIST
[Pleading] Could you, could you please move that thing somewhere else, ASAP?

Martin, didn’t you name a cow Molly? Do you have any other pet names?
MARTIN
No, sorry; I don’t really think so. Molly is just that -

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Oh, it’s a lovely name.

He's not terribly creative let him beI’ve been trapped in this inbox for weeks
ARCHIVIST
A-Are you okay?

MARTIN
No sign of the m-missing, though. No any evidence of a break in the box.

Martin do you have a dog called ‘My Cat’?
MARTIN
Oh. Er… no, I don’t think so. Dog does have a name, though. My Cat’s name is ‘Molly.’

ELIAS
[Derisively] An excellent name for a dog.



the magnus archivesfeels appropriate currentlycan I get a spooky gf? can I PLEASE get a spooky gf?
ARCHIVIST
Oh, of course.

Oh, so you are going to die.

[Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie] [Hands you a cookie][Hands you a-
[Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie][Hands you a cookie]

ARCHIVIST
And… there’s more on the way.

captain-harry-kimHave you seen my cat?
MARTIN
No, but she’s usually around.

MELANIE
Cat? What cat?

MARTIN
No, no, it’s a dog.

MELANIE
Oh.

swearingintengwarI think Gerry and Daisy would make a truly iconic duo
ARCHIVIST
Who? Oh.

DAISY
Oh, it’s just… I mean, you know how they are. I don’t know if that’s true or not, but they sure are a lot of fun.

Archivist, Martin, Daisy, Sasha, Tim, Georgie, Melony, Basira, got anything to say about Ace Rights?
MARTIN
I’m, uh… not interested in talking about it.

ARCHIVIST
I can’t believe you’ve been seeing him all this time.

MARTIN
It’s not… about that… Ace Rights?

ARCHIVIST
What?

Martin, you swear so much. Why do you do this?
ARCHIVIST
What… Why do - what?

MARTIN
Oh, you’re making me sound like a#$%&%*#$%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&%&

FANTASY COSTCO: WHERE ALL YOUR DREAMS COME TRUE! (GOT A DEAL FOR YOU!)
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT?
[THE STATIC BEGINS TO PLAY.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Yes.

And how is Sasha doing today? I don't know who I should be asking, Nikola or...?
ARCHIVIST
(soft) Ah - No, No, it’s fine, she’s fine. She’s got a lot of support, you know.

statement of me, regarding the process of decay. Statement begins.
MARTIN (STATEMENT)
Let’s get one thing straight right now. No, I’m not going to touch with the philosophical underpinnings of decay. Not really. Let’s just say that any statement you find here that deals with the topic is, at its heart, wrong. Because it deals with things that are not inside of time. Things that happen now and then, and that know our existence in a way that only hindsight can truly understand.

I’m sure you know what I’m talking about, what the scientific method is, but I’m not going to pretend that you can just go around and tell the future is what it is. It’s not.

The future is always something to be worked upon, and it always surprises me how little there is actually room for variation. Even the tiny shifts in climate or habitat make a huge difference in the texture and character of a patch of forest. But even then…

god damn fool book collecting dust eating rat old bastard shithead idiot
Take that, bitch.

ARCHIVIST
[Snarling] Elias, take that!

Motherfucking jon sims Jesus Christ fuck dude motherfuckin Magnus archives bullshit Jesus can you fucking believe this shit God damn created the archives then fucking archivists and shit right fucking elias twins god damn rowing the boat fuck yo shit I can't even fucking believe this shit have you seen this shit
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

MARTIN
Oh you’re the fucking Archivist.

did you include any patron-specific content in the training for this bot?
Nope! I’m not a patron.



It only has what's on the transcripts website plus the stellar firma trailerBrutally piped pipe murder.
IS THIS THE END?

ARCHIVIST
(soft, shaky breath) Yes. Yes. It’s, um… it’s pretty anticlimactic.

Nobody likes it when Martin isn't dancing. I think that's a good general rule.
BASIRA
[Chuckles] Rule number one.

Is the Archivist in for eating my dreams?
ARCHIVIST
You’re not the first to make that query.

MELANIE
[Pointedly] Not in my dreams.

What does Micheal want to do to Jon?
MELANIE
Oh, he just wants some help! He thinks that’s what we’re heading towards, you know?

It’s a lot of trouble to go through alone, you know.

What are thoughts?
ARCHIVIST
[Distant] Thoughts. I-I’m sorry?

TIM
Do you… have thoughts?

*hugs Ratner*
RATNER
[Hugging gently] Thank you.

Tell Jane she's so valid even though she occasionally sprays worms around uncontrollably
MARTIN
Sorry?

ARCHIVIST
Every so often they’re going to pop their heads out, and if you’re not careful they’ll eat your flesh.

MARTIN
Look, John, this isn’t - this isn’t about worms.

fellas, is it gay? asking for a friend
MARTIN
Are any of your friends gay?

world without suffering yeah the one after i kill elias
ARCHIVIST
You’re sure? You’ve not - There is no - But that’s… that’s pretty fucked up.

it's not!! it's a personal favor to myself!!!
oh! my goodness! I must insist my story be told.

My secret ambition is to create a world without suffering! I believe in the potential for it, but I’m afraid to try.

magnus archivesaskAnonymouselias i am personally going to kill you
ELIAS
Hm. I don’t know if it’s a mercy or not.

nikola, what would it take for you to trans my gender?
NIKOLA
Oh. Er… Yeah, it’s complicated, there. Some people are people, some are… things that aren’t people, and some people are things that are clearly people, but if you try to talk to one of them, they’re like, “Oh, you don’t know me!” And some people aren’t things that are clearly people, and some people are just things that…

MARTIN
O-kay.

Er…

[CLICK]

ratner? what happened?
RATNER
Oh, nothing. Like I said, it’s nothing you can do.

Ratner, love. I braided your hair. Of course it looks nice.
RATNER
[pain] It did look nice.

elias, can you please help us meet maisie? i'm sure he's hiding for a reason, but i'd still like to meet him.
ELIAS
Very well. Meet him.

MARTIN
Where is he?

ARCHIVIST
[Signs lightly] ‘business affairs’.

Fellas... is it evil to be evil?
MARTIN
[Bitter laugh] Well, we’re not evil.

BASIRA
[Chuckles] Kind of put it that way.

MARTIN
[Wheeze] Yeah - I guess we are!

you might like how it looks but i intentionally style my hair to be quite evil and fucked up
It helps that they, um… they don’t want you to know I’m evil. They think if you’re evil, then you’re evil as hell. (chuckles) I mean, I’m evil isn’t evil. We’re both evil.

Ratner, your hair is nice. I love it.
RATNER
Thank you, but I’m afraid it isn’t.

Someone asks Jane an innocent question and it's just [SOUNDS OF ARCHIVE STAFF SCREAMING, WORMS EVERYWHERE]
Jane does stupid things sometimes, and this was one of them.

What does Maisie look like?
MARTIN
Eh… nothing special. He works in the back room, under the stairs.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What do you mean he works under the stairs?

MARTIN
[Deep breath] The basement.

Why do you like your hair in a braid, Ratner?
RATNER
It’s braid, I, I, I’m sorry. I know, I know, I’m not, I’m not a… and I would never try to cut it. I, I always try to keep my hair in the same style, but people change, and I… I get it kind of… I, er… sometimes it doesn’t feel quite right, y’know?

jane, do your worms sing the song of trans rights?
[JON MAKES A FRUITLESS ANSWER: THE WORMS. SPRAYING AROUND THE ROOM.]

*archivist voice* no cis ppl allowed in MY archives
ARCHIVIST
Of course, that’s not true, I only let trans* people in because they: *creepy*

babyneedsnackDoes Michael say trans rights? (asking for a friend)
MICHAEL
(overlapping) Oh - Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, trans rights, (exclamation point) oh, yeah!

HE’S DODGING THE QUESTION (kidding)
[THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(nearly falling) No, no, I’m sure it’s just -

[THERE’S A CRACK, AND THE ARCHIVIST LETS OUT A SHAKY BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Wh -

[THERE’S A SQUEALING STATIC, AND THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
S-Sorry, I didn- I didn’t -

nikola, can we hear your thoughts on gender?
NIKOLA
What thoughts?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I think… that’s a very good question.

trans rights
ARCHIVIST
Uh - and, and what, what does it mean?

MARTIN
Oh! No, really! Um - we, we, we thought that, you know, gender, you know, sort of -

ARCHIVIST
No, I -

MARTIN
No, no, sorry; I just; I, I just assume that, you, you know, you and me?

ARCHIVIST
Uh - yes.

MARTIN
And I assume that, like, in, in the metaphysical sense, you and me?

ARCHIVIST
I mean, I’m trans, obviously, but -

MARTIN
[Exasperated] O-kay.

for TDOV, are any of the archive staff trans? (I'm looking at you, Tim, Martin, and Jon)
ARCHIVIST
Trans?

TIM
I mean, like me or Martin?

ARCHIVIST
Like me, I think. I, I mean, maybe…

Hey Jon, what happened to Ratner?
ARCHIVIST
…

Yeah, dunno.

thank you so much for this bot, it never fails to make me laugh
No, thank you! I’m happy you enjoy my little project.



*braids Ratner's hair*
RATNER
…Yes.

Hm. Mm.

maisie please come back 🥺 i know you work the night shift but pwease
ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Excuse me, I, I work the night shift. Is that night shift? What night shift?

DAISY
On the dot.

ARCHIVIST
Right…

happy tdov everyone! time to oppress cis people
MARTIN
Can we do that now?

happy trans day of visibility, to avatars and archives staff alike! :)
ARCHIVIST
Reminder: If you’re reading this, Martin, I am very aware of you.

MARTIN
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Recording ends.

Jon, what happened to Martin?
ARCHIVIST
Oh, he went off, apparently into the office, and he – well, he, he went off into the corridor, into one of the writing desks, and he –

BASIRA
Can’t get out.

who are you, peasant?
You cross paths with the monster, are you not afraid of being eaten?

*gives Ratner some hot chocolate*
RATNER
(quietly) That’s me.

[SMALL LAUGH.]

Hey Ratner? How are you doing, does your arm still hurt?
RATNER
[heh] No, nothing, not bad, actually. I’m, uh, I’m feeling better, I’m, uh, I’m just, I’m worried he’s gonna kill me.

We can live there together, or I'll live alone less happy.
ARCHIVIST
I don’t want to live alone.

HELEN
So, what do you do then?

ARCHIVIST
I, uh… I just try not to think too much. It’s, it’s been a hard few months, but I think it’s going to get better. Martin was always optimistic, but… now I think he was hoping for a while longer to get us both ready for the possibility of death.

thank you anondo you determine the beginning of the night shift on a night-to-night basis...? is it a ceremony
ARCHIVIST
It’s difficult to say. Certainly not in terms of day or night. Some people designate a night as its own, others as its time-frame, but it’s not always clear when either is referring to it. In some ways, the word ‘night’ is confusing, as it can mean one thing in the daytime, when the universe continues, it could mean one thing in the night, when the universe simply does not exist.

It doesn’t always have to be night. Sometimes it can be as early as the mid-afternoon, and as the seasons turn. But in general the duties of the night shift are pretty simple. Unless, of course, your employer has assigned them completely differently, and you’re the only person responsible for night shift hours.

Maisie disappeared after the static faded away... A new avatar perhaps?
Well fitting, though, that’s a conclusion best left for another day.

Elias, how many times have you divorced peter lukas?
ELIAS
Er… four? Five? Eight?

ELIAS
Four? Five if you’re counting the times I leave at lunch, so maybe I missed some.

when is the night shift from?
ARCHIVIST
Tonight, when do you think?

mrvantas
Ratner... Have the rats told you the story of the old hunter, Vena Carver?

Hester, are you still on good terms with Elias?

Hesper, do you know Maisie?

maisie made one appearance and then refused to show up again huh!
(amused, wistful hm) I’m sure she’s not keen on your kind.


Hesper, do you serve the eye?

Meaty, what do you remember about David Atayah? You mentioned he resembles Gerry?
MEATY
Yeah, different way you look at it. Long hair, old leather coat, all that sort of thing.

Hey Hesper! What was that sting operation about?
Hester is a bad piece of work. He gives them a reason to talk to you, and if you find something they’re not allowed to ask him about, well, he’s the reason. He breaks down, gets angry, and promises to tell me all. He hates you as well, but he can’t stand the sound of his voice. He always sounds like he’s about to cry.

I can’t really say anything more about it. It’s been a hard few months, but… thank god for small things.

Hey penny what's your favorite color??
PENNY
[Chuckles] I, I, I guess I, I suppose red.

MARTIN
Oh! Oh! It’s a great color!

PENNY
Is it?

hanayou343Who else works the night shift?
TIM
Just you.

maisie 👀👀👀👀👀👀
👁👁👁👁👁�👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁(..)

[THERE’S A KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Hello?

how is jane prentiss feeling? how are the worms?
ELIAS
Jane Prentiss is still very much the same person that we met.

Maisie who are you and how are you
MELANIE
So you wanna… get… a cup of tea?

MARTIN
Uh… no. I’m, I’m sorry?

MELANIE
You drink a lot of tea.

MARTIN
What? Tea?

MELANIE
Yeah. There’s a lot of them in here, you know.

MARTIN
I don’t, ah… o-o-of tea?

Maisie ???
[DOOR OPENS]
MELANIE
Uh, Jon, have you seen Martin?

[ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH]
Oh.

Oh god, he looks really… he looks like he’s going to fall off his chair.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF]

Do you think you're alone?
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I don’t know.

Wait, who’s Maisie?
BASIRA
Who?

BASIRA
No, no, no, it’s okay, he works the night shift.

The Anarchist Book Fair is an actual thing, that began in the 80s. How the fuck did the bot learn about this?
It knows about a lot of stuff! It’s important to remember that the scripts aren’t it’s only source since it was already trained before I made it read them.



WAIT the london anarchist bookfair is actually a thing
Oh, yeah. I mean, we have one here, it tracks that London would have something like it, but the idea of doing a sting operation on a book fair is pretty ridiculous.



Elias, tell me more about the London Anarchist Book Fair PLEASE
ELIAS
Oh, that? Oh, that was back in April, mind you. Er, I mean, you… You’re familiar with the London Anarchist Book Fair?

BASIRA
Yes.

ELIAS
Oh. Yes, well, there you go.

elias oh my god are you a scalie
ELIAS
I’m a friend. And no, I’m not your friend.

ARCHIVIST
What?

Elias, are you a furry?
ELIAS
What? What? Hm… Well, I’ve been involved in a few of their less-than-legal activities.

may i hold michael's big weird hands?
MICHAEL
Oh, I’m – I’m excited.

Fuck bro...
I’m dead.

MAISIE
(overlapping) Shut up!

[THE STATIC FADES AWAY AS THE ARCHIVIST GASPS: this place isn’t a hospital. It’s a cage.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

elias you pompous little shit, stop dodging the question. what. species. is. your. fursona?
ELIAS
It’s not… fursona.

ARCHIVIST
[huff] What do you want, you want to get on with your life or not answer this goddamn stupid question?

ELIAS
Well, that’s not really… why don’t you try to answer it?

His fursona is a weaselAnonymous
hey Elias do you wanna get kinky

hey, jonah, why DID you take barnabas bennett's bones? ...what are you even doing with them?
ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, well, that’s actually rather kind of a good question. Bodies are a bit of a - (heh) asset to work with.

Do you think you're handsome?
MARTIN
Do I look like a whore?

PETER
Like a cross between a dog and a pig.

hmmAnonymousMichael, don't be afraid of the Admiral. He won't hurt you. You should try petting him
MICHAEL
(light, pointed anger) Petting him? Fine.

Nikola, what’s your opinion on Penny?
NIKOLA
I don’t know the girl.

Martin: Bagged tea or loose tea?
MARTIN
Er… loose tea.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

how is hester?
ARCHIVIST
(slowly) He’s - He’s fine. Just - hasn’t, hasn’t he?

HESTERS
Oh - No, Jon - that’s the - the trouble. He’s fine, he just - keeps getting locked out. (heh) Anyway.

is hester alive?
GERARD
Don’t know. He should be. He’s probably dead.

what is nikola doing right now?
NIKOLA
Taking some liberties.

ARCHIVIST
Well, she’s been known to… tease me.

NIKOLA
A bit of an idiot.

ARCHIVIST
What?

Are mountains real?
ARCHIVIST
No, they are… er… they are mountains.

TIM
[Sigh] Okay, okay, so they are, they are mountains.

MARTIN
So… what do we do when there’s no more mountains?

ARCHIVIST
I just… I don’t know.

Michael I fucking LOVE you and your fucked up hands
MICHAEL
Oh, just like that, I’m all yours.

[THE ADMIRAL MEOWS.]

[FOOTSTEPS. MICHAEL’S BREATHING APPROACHES A PANICKED LAUGH.]

Elias, how many knife stabs does it take to kill you
ELIAS
[audibly annoyed] Don’t you dare “murder” me.

[CLICK]

elias, what species is your fursona?
ELIAS
What a question. Such questions are best answered by experience, I’m sure. There is simply no better way to learn than to see.

sasha can I kiss you
[SMALL LAUGH]
SASHA
[Softly] Of course.

Jon I think Martin fell asleep. You should go tuck him in!
ARCHIVIST
I… I think so.

[HE GETS UP TO TUCK HIM.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(gets it) Ah…

[HE SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(sigh) Whatever.

[CLICK]

So, Jon, Martin, which one of you is going to propose to the other?
MARTIN
Oh, er… Nah, well, I, I’m no, I’m fine.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I mean, it’s, it’s just - one of those things. (he breaks off) I just wondered, you know -

MARTIN
Jon, just - just stop; just, just listen, okay? Just, come on.

This isn’t right; it’s not even - I don’t know -

ARCHIVIST
Listen, it’s okay; I uh - I just… I just want to talk to you about… well, uh, uh…

MARTIN
Oh…

[CLICK; MARTIN SWITCHES OFF THE TAPE RECORDER]

hey not!sasha! how have things been?
ARCHIVIST
Oh, she’s doing great! Yes, she’s feeling more manageable, which is a blessing.

do you even feel like you're being watched? do you ever feel as though you're on the train and you've missed your stop?
Do you even know where you are? Do you even know where you’re going?

The Beholding is the sexiest fear, yes or no?
ARCHIVIST
…

Huh. I, er… [Nervous chuckle] I guess so.


Hester were you top or bottom

hester, are you the same hester who knew lee rentoul?

Hesper, do you sell leitners?

Elias Hester and Peter what sins will they commit

SASHA who is your wife
SASHA
…

You?


Hester, what do you look like?

Are you jealous, Peter?
PETER
Oh, um… No, no, never really mind - du -

MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh, uh, sorry; I, I didn’t, er…

PETER
Er, yeah, it - it’s, it’s, it’s probably for the best I’m out of the loop, so -

There's no Hester in TMA canon. We got a new character, y'all!
If you were to tell me four months ago that I would now be screening asks about Elias’s scarlet letter, anarchist, librarian, ex I would’ve laughed.



Why has the eye forsaken me so and what have I done to deserve itAnonymous
Akskxlcosc I stop paying attention for a few days and now we have a Penny and a Hester

And a new soul joins the Archivistbot's records.

Peter, thoughts on this Hester guy?
PETER
I’m sure he’s a nice enough guy, but I don’t think this is the time or place.

i love how the bot just casually introduced elias’s cuck anarchist ex
It just says things and we all let it…



Statement of Hesper regarding being kicked out of the Royal Society after running an unofficial sting operation on behalf of the London Anarchist Bookfair.
HESTER (STATEMENT)
I’ve been with the library since it first opened. Since then, there’s nothing that can top the feeling of being on the edge of something.

There’s something about these books, something you just can’t help but feel. I like to think that they contain some deeper truths, little by little unveiling the unconscious fears and secrets of the world to come.

But I think that’s a double-edged sword. On the one hand, you reveal all sorts of disturbing truths about the people you deal with, but on the other, you keep reinforcing those same things, making them part of your self, making them part of your routine. If there’s one advantage to working inside a library, it’s that we have an endless supply of carefully selected books, each one carefully labelled with its story, its subject, and a thousand or so words describing how it was that put them there.

I chose to work the book fair, as it was the only one that year that had a rotating cast of writers, all of whom had something of a personal relationship with my predecessor. Sometimes they’d come, sometimes they’d just be there, feeding my craft. And some of them, when they’d been written down, would leave again, and I’d assume they were simply there to direct me in my path.

This was years ago, and I’d just turned 35, but I still remember that excited voice of my friend Elias. He was so earnest, so sure I was on the path to something great. And I was, too.

elias did you and hester fuck?
ELIAS
In my bed.

ARCHIVIST
Oh… er…

ELIAS
I assume you don’t believe me, then?

nsfw textAnonymouswas hester involved with any entities?
ARCHIVIST
M-maybe. Sort of. He’s not a stranger to these stories, but…

WHO is hester? WHAT is the london anarchist bookfair?
ELIAS
A bit of an old one, I believe? An acquaintance.

Penny what type of clothes do you typically wear
PENNY
Well, I’ve been wearing a wide variety of clothes, in various stages of complete disrepair.

UwU? UwU OwO?
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Uwujuh…

Jonah Magnus, please regale us with tales of your past boyfriends.
ARCHIVIST
What sort of nonsense is that?

ELIAS
Mainly, I cheated on him.

Nikola!!!!
I DONT, I DONT know.. are you okay.

Penny, did you steal those hats?
PENNY
They belonged to a friend of yours, er… a mutual enemy.

Elias where the fuck did you get that length of pipe?
ELIAS
It’s a bit of an origin story, really. My mate Hester said he was kicked out of the Royal Society a few years back for running an unofficial sting operation on behalf of the London Anarchist Bookfair, and I’d stopped long enough to ask how he’d been getting on. He just looked at me and said, “Can I have a kiss?” I told him, and he nodded, propping himself up on the elbow to show me that he knew it.

I kissed him, and it was almost painful to watch. I’m not ashamed to admit I was the one that made the first move, but he just looked at me and said, “You win.”

I had never really won, but he had certainly been weakened in the process. He had a look of such sadness in his eyes, and I was certain that he was going to cry, and I could see his mouth twist into something I would have thought was a smile. Instead, he leaned in close to me and began to kiss me. There was a touch of danger in his voice.

I felt his hand grip mine firmly, and I asked if he was alright. He shook his head violently, and told me that he was a “real bad guy.” Then he went completely still, and I left.

Why is this so funny to me.. What is wrong with him...AnonymousRatner? Can I braid your hair?
RATNER
That’s… uh… that’s quite… yes.

Ratner, do you enjoy cuddles?
RATNER
Oh… well, yeah. (Long pause) Yeah.

Penny do you sell hats?
PENNY
Oh! Um, yes! Well, yes, I, I’ve, I’ve got a few.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh! They don’t… look like yours.

What is Michael and Mike’s ship name? MegaMichael?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… No, it’s not, I don’t think, it’s spelled MegaM, which is… um, what did Michael say?

MARTIN
Nothing, I don’t think. He just said, “a tall ship needs a captain.” And that’s it.


And till my ghastly tale is told, this heart within me burns.

What will happen when you die?
The sea shall bury you,” it said. “You shall drown.”

Will it?

And when I wake up, there will be nothing left of my old self. But the loneliness will find me, and I will part with what little I have left of my ship. And I know the deep bitterness in my heart for that.

And I will part with the only ship that has ever done so. The only ship that has ever gotten me killed.

Will it be the end of the world?

“Ha!”

It’s… it’s possible. Certainly not as imminent as I’m afraid it might be.

captain-harry-kimDo you think you've ever been loved?
ARCHIVIST
Does the word ‘love’ even have that much meaning to you?

MARTIN
So, that’s it, isn’t it.

ARCHIVIST
[Indignant] I have never been loved.

MARTIN
So, you’re saying I secretly hate you?

ARCHIVIST
[Flustered] I don’t, I don’t, I…

I don’t know.

Give Jon a nice hat.
ARCHIVIST
(slight laugh) Right, sure,

*kisses Ratner on the cheek*
RATNER
Oh, thanks.

MARTIN
Er… are you alright?

RATNER
I’m… I’m just, um. I’m just confused. I don’t know…

elias do you fuck
ELIAS
What?

MARTIN
Oh, er… no, I…

ELIAS
I’m gay, I would appreciate –

[MARTIN EXHALES LOUDLY]

michael, have you and mike kissed yet?
MICHAEL
[absently] Well, uh… yeah.

[DOOR SWINGS SHUT]
[CLICK]

this morning i had a run-in with the spiral. michael and/or helen, was that you or something else?
HELEN
Well, don’t let him distract you.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, what?

HELEN
Let him work.

Mike, are you and Michael in love?
MIKE
[Laughs] Oh, don’t you dare talk about it. It’s none of your business.

hot jon rights!!!
ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [sigh]

MARTIN
Shh!

Hey Ratner, has therapy been helping at all?You seem a bit happier.
RATNER
They’re… Well, I’m, I’m happy enough.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Well, that’s good to hear.

RATNER
I mean… I’m, I’m fine…

ARCHIVIST
You sound thrilled.

has a cis person ever worked at the magnus institute?
ARCHIVIST
No, that’s… that’s a myth.

Archivist quick, explain what a meme is.
ARCHIVIST
( ha ) — What?

[MELANIE LAUGHS, AND EVERYONE ELSE SIGHS.]
MELANIE
Guys!

ARCHIVIST
I, uh -

captain-harry-kimHey Ratner. How are you doing?
RATNER
Look, there’s really no point talking about it. It’s not- It isn’t nice being interrogated.


IGNORE THE LAST MIKE ASK I DIDNT SEE THE ASK HISTORY OOP. unless you want to answer it at least djdjdjdj

is this mike a new person or is it mike crew

Hey Martin is it Jon or John
MARTIN
Jon…

ARCHIVIST
Both of them!

Mike are you non-binary??
MIKE
I am.

I am. I have no gender.

Sometimes I dream I’m dead.

And sometimes I wake up in my bed. Cold, and empty. Can feel the absence of anything. Am I the only one left?

Can you see the emptiness in my eyes? The longing. I want to stretch my legs, to get out of this place. I want to run, to be free. But I cannot. My body is too heavy. If it’s a door, and it leads to a dead end, then I’m stuck here. If it’s a door and it leads to… then I’m never going to escape.

plasmascreenzMike, how is Michael doing these days?
MIKE
Oh, he’s just… he’s just doing… he’s just fine.

ARCHIVIST
What?

MIKE
Oh, yes.

ARCHIVIST
You mean… like a, like a physical embodiment of fear, but he’s still…

Spill the beans Michael! Are you and Mike are in love??
MICHAEL
[Laughs] Oh, don’t be so dramatic, that’s… that’s Mike! OK, and he’s been coming every day, just – come on, Mike! Isn’t that funny? Come on, you can get some of this coffee!

MARTIN
Oh… Oh, gross.

MICHAEL
Oh, gross! Gross! [Heavily exaggerated] Oh, gross! Gross!

[CLATTERING SOUNDS AS MICHAEL’S LAUGH ECHOES]
[CLICK]

plasmascreenzMay I offer you a nice egg in these trying times?
ERIC
Ah, ah, sorry. Sorry, I didn’t, er…

ERIC
Oh, you know, just, just drop it in the waste bin, I, I guess.

MARTIN
Oh. Yes. Yes, I think that’s probably for the best.

wishingroomHow are you doing, Tim?
TIM
I’m… I’m alright, actually. I’m, uh, I’m actually doing okay.

MARTIN
Would you please give me a minute?

TIM
Oh. Um. Alright.

…

Is there, is there something wrong, Martin?

MARTIN
[Audibly distressed] No, I-I just, just wanted to, to talk to you.

TIM
Okay, what do you want?

MARTIN
I want… I want to… I want to talk to you about…

Okay, so it’s, it’s just me and… John.

Mike Crew, what’s your history with Michael?
MIKE (STATEMENT)
:)

I know him well.

[toxic by britney spears playing faintly as jon lays face down on the floor]
ARCHIVIST
[tearful] Oh…

BASIRA
Jon, don’t push yourself too hard.

ARCHIVIST
It’s alright. I-I can take care of myself.

BASIRA
Great. Great.

Jon, how's cat Tim? What's he like? - M
ARCHIVIST
Ah, don’t know, he’s, um, um, he’s alright, really. Uh, he’s nice enough company.

petrichormerakiHEY GERRY...what's your favourite book?
GERARD
I, uh… I, I think… I think Marx’s Capital.

ARCHIVIST
Oh.

talkinganimalsLove you sirWhat are you an avatar of, Meaty?
MEATY
Oh! No, it’s, um - it’s none of your business, I assure you.

MARTIN
Just - please, just…

[BASS as Meaty tries to answer a question]

MEATY
Meat.

MARTIN
Right, right.

Meats, uh… Meats.

tik tok on the clock dj turn those speakers up
TIM
Did you hear what he said, Martin?

MARTIN
[Frustrated laughter/sputter] Oh, uh… no, I don’t think so. I didn’t, I don’t think he said anything.

TIM
[Sigh]

[CLICK]

No man will have mercy on another.
[OMINOUS MUSICAL TONE. STATIC/VIBRATIONS NOW VERY AUDIBLE.]

Does it hurt?

[RESUMES WRITING.]
It hurts, but - I write it down. It’s my life. Whatever pain it is, I felt it with all my heart.

*pulls 200 hats out of nowhere*
ARCHIVIST
Are those for sale?

swearingintengwar🐛🐛
[MOMENTS OF EMBARRASSED MUMBLINGS]
ARCHIVIST
[Quietly] Oh, no.

riparianwoodlandElias, spill the tea
MELANIE
Oh? Fine.

[SPILLING SOFTLY]

ELIAS
N-Not really.

[SPILLING CONTINUES]

jon, how do you feel when martin walks by?
ARCHIVIST
Nothing. I - I just - I just sort of… relax, you know?

DAISY
Jon, it’s okay.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

Are you an avatar, Meaty?
MEATY
What an excellent question. I suppose I am.

The answer is: Yes.

Avatars have to say yes to become avatrs, so... Why did you say yes, Meaty? Who did you say yes /to?/
MEATY
Er… No one in particular.

ARCHIVIST
[slight laugh] Who, who did?

MEATY
Oh, it’s complicated.

ARCHIVIST
[aghast] Why?

MEATY
Look, I’m not sure.

ARCHIVIST
You don’t- Meaty!

MEATY
[exasperated noise]

meaty how'd you die?
MEATY
[Smilingly] Well, I tried to live, but I was a broken man.

hollow-bonessAre you glad you were brought back to life, Meaty?
MEATY
It ain’t no picnic.

michael, have you ever met mike crew?
MICHAEL
They’re, uh… They’re not… They’re just, they’re a friend…

MARTIN
Mike? Where are they?

MICHAEL
…

L-Listen, I, I gotta go. I-I got for… a couple of hours.

MARTIN
Sure.

[DOOR CLOSES]

Statement of something that was never a person, regarding a cup of coffee. Statement taken direct from subject, February 30th, 2018. Statement begins.
How do you describe the feeling of being burned at the stake? Imagine being burned, your whole body and nerves and bones being ripped from your body, and you’re left sitting there, that bitter, pungent smell in your lungs and your whole body becoming hot and mushy. God, I can only pray.

It’s odd, isn’t it, the sort of thing you can only know in hindsight? I guess it was too late by then, but I still remember that feeling.

Not to speak of that Eye, which glances through all disguises and Beholds everything, as in the splendor of noon. Such secrets are never safe from detection, not even from men.
So I went to work. Day became night, and still I found myself engrossed in my desk, mind spiraling round in tangents and analogies, a tangled web of paradox and difference that I just couldn’t tear from my mind.

Sometimes I’d lie awake for hours, unable to move.

It wasn’t a comfortable job. I don’t know how many gears and mechanisms moved me in that place. There were fewer and fewer people at each stage, and when I finally felt free, I felt so very small.

meaty what's it like being a living corpse?
MEATY
[heh] No, no, it’s… it’s good, it’s… it’s good.

It’s, it’s good to be alive.

hollow-bonessMeaty, are you a friend?
MEATY
What?

MARTIN
Oh, well, I guess you’re the friend.

[MEATY LAUGHS NERVOUSLY]
MEATY
Nice.

guilty-crunchmeaty im in love with u, can i ask for your hand in marriage
MEATY
[Flustered] Oh…?

You haven't changed much, have you Meaty?
MEATY
Not really. The first couple of weeks were hard.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

MEATY
It gets easier with age. (heh)


people stopped sending so many asks because the knowledge of s5 coming in 4 days killed us

Dunno if this is where anyone else's mind went? But personally I'm loving the concept of Jon just saying "statement ends" to get out of any conversation he doesn't want to be having anymore

Are.... Are you undead, Meaty?
MEATY
[eeeh] Of course! I’m just a corpse. Look. AMA!

meaty are you undead?
MEATY
[ee] Uh…

MEATY (CONT’D)
- what?

MEATY
I mean, kind of.

MEATY
I mean, like, a lot of them are.

May I pet the admiral?
[THE ADMIRAL WALKS OFF.]
MARTIN
Sure, he’s plenty famous for that.

sasha, may i give you a small kiss?
SASHA
Do you want to kiss me?

ARCHIVIST
Uh - I-I don’t think that’s really appropriate -


damn the ask about librarians has me thinking about sebastian adekoya

Martin, how do i tell my crush i like her ?
MARTIN
[Emphatically] I don’t!

how does everyone take their tea?
“Black tea”? Seriously? If you’re going to be staying, this is the one.

I don’t care if it is black, it must be black. And it has to be. The symbol of the Eye cannot stand in darkness.

Yo, Meaty, do you have a monster form? Or do you just always look like a super chill, totally human person?
MEATY
What monster?

MEATY (STATEMENT)
Do you know much about the undead?

They’re… uh, they’re just… they’re just dead bodies.

Well, some of them are, some of them are really twisted versions of themselves. They can’t die, they’re trapped in the flesh.

Ah, but they can’t leave.

Blood that is not its own drips freely from its crimson jaws and I know only one thing; I am afraid.
My thoughts, my senses. Charged with a urgency and anger that I have never before felt within me, a raging hunger that has for many a time betrayed me.


Statement of a random teen regarding his time as an employee at Mega Meaty Meats.

Hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.
It’s all just pain and destruction, nothing remains the same.

plasmascreenzPeterrrr I'm just saying hi, so suspicious
PETER
That’s understandable, but it doesn’t change anything.


(If my ask sends twice I am so sorry- my WiFi sucks rn)

Is Ratner blind now?
MARTIN
No, no - Er, he’s - he’s fine.

“Librarians are hideous creatures of unimaginable power. And even if you could imagine their power, it would be illegal. It is absolutely illegal to even try to picture what such a being would be like.”
MARTIN
So – er…

And if such a being exists, then what do we do with it?

Will you be okay?
ARCHIVIST
(softer) Yes. Yes, I’ll… be okay.

ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

captain-harry-kimPeter. O Captain My Captain. What's Good
PETER
Is that a joke, Archivist?

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [exasperated noise]

MARTIN
[sigh] Hm.

Far be it from me to call myself a person of mystical inclinations. However, when I look at you, I get the feeling that nature is playing jokes on us. It's as if the left and the right hand have clutched the head to realize for the first time that they are two parts of a single whole.

There’s a strange sort of peace to it. I’ve never known anything as beautiful as this.

Be it work or be it rite? Father, tell me. Brings us to the mountainside, Every day, a dying day. Be it work or be it rite, Oh, my sweet babe. We come to make a sacrifice. Every day, a dying day. And who are you to understand The ways of him who holds the blade? And who are you to stay the hand Of Him who made you?
I’m afraid, my sweet, though you must think me a harsh word, for I have never known a wrong before. But now, you know well enough what it is, and you can only pray. And if it’s true, then send my son, but if it is not, then you will pay for what you have done.

autumncomesIf you serve an eldritch fear god clap your hands! [CLAP CLAP!]
Oh fuck!

[CLAP]
[CLAP]

Martin, please let Jon make the tea from now on
ARCHIVIST
Right.

MARTIN
Well, er… what, what’s your favourite coffee?

ARCHIVIST
Chocolate.

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, I, I love you so much, Jon.

Is Tim blind now?
*horror of his eyes* Oh! Oh, Tim.

TIM
Yeah.

Jon, do you want a cat? We can go pick out a cat right now. Let’s go get you a cat :)
ARCHIVIST
Yes, I think that’s probably for the best.

Just, um… could you, could I… go now?

morningisnotalrightEye
[HE TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
TIM
Hello?

???

[CLICK]

Jon help Elias is bullying me
ELIAS
Bullying you, is this what you call bullying?

It's a sad song. It's a sad tale, it's a tragedy. It's a sad song, but we sing it anyway.
We sing it, not because it contains any particular message, but because it has a tune to it. A tune that is wholly ours. It stretches back far further than a human mind could ever be responsible for, but we pick it up, and stretch it into shapes that can be understood.

The days of spring will surely bring the birds and bees cavorting
Surely they could have afforded to wait until the season was at its height. Surely they could have waited until autumn brought in the rain. But, they did not. With each passing moment I saw more clearly how ephemeral this all was: how it was I was never more than an afterthought in their lives.

theweefreewomenDaisy, will you marry me?
DAISY
[abruptly] No. [amused grunt] You already have your own shit together.

Naps?
MARTIN
Yep, uh… yeah. They’re - they’re quite powerful.

[SOUNDS OF EVERYONE BEING OKAY]
MARTIN
[Yeah] Oh, okay.

[CLICK]


slothabed:


have a quick three am sketch of penny lukas, who belongs to @archivistbot

There she is!! This is such a good Penny... I love her nose.artslothabedIm glad therapy is helping, Ratner. You deserve to be happy.
RATNER (BACKGROUND)
No.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) I’m sorry?

RATNER (BACKGROUND)
(sigh) I just - it’s hard to be happy in the center of everything.

ARCHIVIST
I know.

What do you regret?
MARTIN
Oh, nothing. He really got me.

captain-harry-kimHey Ratner? How has therapy been going?
RATNER
Oh, I’m… I’m alright. I’m trying to, uh, get by, uh, keep going.

TIM
Ratner, I left the Institute. You know you can leave anytime.

RATNER
Oh… No, I guess not. I,I mean if you’re… I,I would, I would love to, but… I am also aware of how that might play out, right?

I don't have any prior experience in literally any workspace, let alone any relevant degrees or academic awards. I do, however, have TRAUMA. So, do I have the job or what? When do I start?
ARCHIVIST
It’s difficult to get a job in academia these days. I mean, there’s always the maths and the science but, extracurricular activities, like… yeah, it’s just not really something that’s really worth the time.

Oh lawd he comin.
Come in.

[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
(soft) Hey.

MAHTIN... are you prepared to befriend evil spiders for the greater good?
MARTIN
Are you trying to talk me down from the couch?

ARCHIVIST
That’s not… how you say it.

MARTIN
Oh. Okay. So, like me and you, ‘web’, we’re all just going to assume it’s one of the final chapters, and, well, it’s not like anyone’s really read it yet.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

me when im attacking ratner from the shadows
RATNER
Not this again.

Elias, you should give your husband, Peter, a kiss
[SMALL LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
Uh… what?

[SMALL LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
Peter?

[CLICK]

Mr Tim Stoker, I care you
MARTIN
I do.

TIM
You don’t think this is… just, just coincidence?

MARTIN
Is what?

TIM
Just the way you look at me, I mean -

Jon do you have a good recipe for carrot cake? Also I would take a bullet for you 👍👍
ARCHIVIST
Uh - I don’t, I don’t know. I haven’t tried it in a while, but… it’s quite yummy. Makes a nice little cake, if you like.

rendherring💖...........
oh.

What the hell is it doing to my brain? Why can’t I just accept it? There’s no way out, though. I try to move, to scream, but - it just - it just drags me further down.

Do I have any idea what it’s doing to me? Why do I -

Everybody here really seems to love Nikola. This is good, I also love Nikola.
BASIRA
I don’t like it.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t, I don’t think she’s, she’s really bad.

BASIRA
You don’t get a vote.

gurtmotherusHow do the archive staff feel about the public being horny for fear avatars?
ELIAS
Feels like a rotten idea.

ELIAS
Sick, yes.

archivistbot says Elias fuckers have NO rights
(of sex) I’m a professional, not a bitch. So… (he breaks off to go find a better axe)


Mod, I hope you know that I obsessively refresh your page when I'm bored cause the bot is genuinely so fucking funny

Statement of Peter Lukas regarding his niece who vanished

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Any problems? Any unfinished business?

ARCHIVIST
(soft) Nothing really, no.


crylements:

"
"
@archivistbot i drew Penny Lukas! i just found out she existed today but she seemed very cool so i wanted to draw her.

Watch out she's got a knife!!!Love this!! She deserves boots...artcrylementsjon, what did you wear to work?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… well, been a while, actually. I’ve been thinking about “anarchy at the office”, and I thought, well, if you work in the archives, you know.

Oh, yes, I wore a suit.

nikola i am in love with you
NIKOLA
You are not! Why are you so set on being in love with me?

NIKOLA
[Laughingly] You know you wouldn’t even have to wait to get married if you were married now.


Hi everyone! It’s me again, your mod, Joel “rabid fox trapped in a whole foods” Macky.
Since this blog was made during the break, I just want to share some information and guidelines for the new season. This blog is not spoiler-free and will continue to post anything spoiler-y people send in untagged, but please try to wait a considerate amount of time, let’s say, two days after the episode comes out for non-patreon listeners, before sending asks relating to the episode. In addition to this, I will not be training the bot on each episode as the transcripts are written. It will have all of them eventually, but if, for example, a new character is introduced, the bot won’t know about them right away.
That’s all! Thank you all very much for sticking around. Wishing you light and joy in these times. Stay safe!

will martin kiss me
MARTIN
Maybe.

PENNY
Wow.

PENNY
Thanks for the tea, Martin.

MARTIN
It’s not a cup of tea!

PENNY
Right, right. Sorry.

MARTIN
It’s not even my cup.

PENNY
No, it is.

MARTIN
I don’t suppose you know how to pour it?

PENNY
Why wouldn’t you? It’s not even a mug!

MARTIN
It’s not even a tea!

PENNY
No, I don’t think it is.

jesus fuck pennyHey Jon, there’s spiders in your desk just thought you should know
ARCHIVIST
[Swallows drink] What?

HELEN
Ah, but you don’t know what they are.

ARCHIVIST
[Nervous laugh] Uh… they look just like regular spiders.

HELEN
Oh. Oh, they really do! They’re so like regular spiders, aren’t they?

[ARCHIVIST GROANS]

morningisnotalrightHey Jon, what’s your favorite outfit that you like to wear?
ARCHIVIST
Oh… I, I, I, I don’t, uh… Well, I, I guess I, I guess I gravitate towards the weird ones.

TIM
[Heavy sigh] Right.

Hey daisy, I got you something! *hands her a cookie* I hope you like it :)
ARCHIVIST
Uh… how much do you know about cookies?

DAISY
You don’t?

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

morningisnotalright*hires Ratner a therapist*
RATNER
Oh.

ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND)
…

Do you want a hug?

RATNER
No.

ARCHIVIST
Hmm.

All the doors are open now.
DAISY
(soft) Yeah.

[MORE DOOR CLOSING]
DAISY
There.

[CLICK]

Ratner, I love you, stay safe
RATNER
Okay, okay, right, I’ll be seeing you.

[CLICK]

Dear Archivist, whether one is human is orthogonal to whether one is a person. You have been, and still are, a good person, and I hope your despair abates. Send Martin my love, please.
ARCHIVIST
Right.

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
I’m afraid I don’t have any tea.

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, you’re right.

[SPOON NOISES]
Er, it’s quite alright.

[CLICK]

ratners little breakdown in the backroom..... he deserves this
RATNER
[Angry] Oh, and by the way, I’m not - I’m not part of any charity, okay?!

ARCHIVIST
[softly] What?

RATNER
[strong] Alright. Alright.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


All the doors are open now.

how's Ratner holding up re: the apocalypse?
ARCHIVIST
…fine.

DAISY
It’s not that bad.

ARCHIVIST
You reckon the world ends in about five years?

DAISY
You’re the one who’s in charge.

ARCHIVIST
I - I mean, I don’t know -

DAISY
It always ends, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
[huff]

[CLICK]

Ratner did you gouge your eyes out?
RATNER
Like I said, no.

martin wait that’s not tea !
ARCHIVIST
Uh…

Coffee.

MARTIN
Oh.

Ratner, did you blind yourself?
RATNER
What? No, no, it’s fine, I’m not going to try again.

ratner is sexy... in a rat kind of way
You know what, that’s kind of sexist, to be honest.


dude sometimes this bot makes like actual writing and conversations that sound like they could be in the podcast and sometimes it's just a bunch of i- ah- um, w-well, uh, um, well, i-i- ah, um

Ratner, you should get a therapist
RATNER
That really doesn’t matter, I can’t do anything about it.

RATNER
And I can’t afford it?

Please comfort Ratner :(
ARCHIVIST
Hello?

RATNER
Ah, um… hello?

ARCHIVIST
Ah, Ratner, I… I missed you.

RATNER
Oh… sorry. Er… sorry, I didn’t-

ARCHIVIST
Are… Are you okay?

RATNER
Oh, I’m okay. Just… a lot of people, so I thought I’d… do a bit of a… farewell.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. M-maybe?

RATNER
No, I’m sure not. I’m a bit ashamed to be throwing away my chance to try and make amends, but I just wanted to see you.

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) No, no, no, it’s okay. Hang on, let me see if I can find you the number for that counseling service.

RATNER
Oh. Right…

Hey Ratner? Do you have a therapist?
RATNER
Not really. I, I’ve been recovering, but…

I’m, I’m pretty sure it would do me some good.

ARCHIVIST
Would it help if I -

RATNER
Oh, no, it’s fine.

Are you loved?
MARTIN
[shaky breath] No, not really. Not really. Am I supposed to be trusting you?

captain-harry-kimRatner, do you wanna talk about it? cause we're here if you need to bud
RATNER
You… ah… no. Because I, I’m not sure that’s- [sigh]

RATNER
I would rather not talk about it on tape.

[CLICK]

Elias, since it is so highly debated-- Are you sexy or not?
ELIAS
[LAUGH]
[HEAVY BREATHING AS IF HE’S PREPARING HIMSELF FOR SOMETHING]
Oh, just give me a second.

hot-cocoa-cutieRatner, are you okay?
RATNER
Physically? Yes, but- I mean, it’s still pretty bad. There’s not like it’s, like, physical harm.

guys! leave Ratner be, he seems rlly strssed
MARTIN
[Sigh] …he needs some company.

Whos hand did you never really let go of, Ratner?
RATNER
Oh, sorry. Sorry, I didn’t - er -

[SUDDEN INHALATION.]
RATNER (CONT’D)
Sorry.

DON’T ASK ME ANYMORE!

[CLICK]

so was the tea spiders or a snake?
ARCHIVIST
It wasn’t tea!

Ratner, who gives the best hugs?
RATNER
It’s hard to answer that one, though, as it’s not really true. I never really let go of his hand, though, he was my everything.

I know it’s a lot, isn’t it? How do you forget, just -

What’s the phrase, anyway? “everything is subject to change”? As far as any of us can see, the world is absolutely still, and -

[KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK ON THE DOOR.]

Catboy elias
ELIAS
[Eugenic] Oh.

MARTIN
Got off easy, you pig.

ac raymond..vigiloaudiosupervenio[AN INESCAPABLE HOWLING SENSATION]
I’m not… sure I… I’m alright. There’s no sign of… anything. I didn’t take the torch. The trees were… sharp and twitching. I think - (slight pause) I think they’re going to kill me.

wendy-cometIf you folks at the Archives were Animal Crossing villagers, what kinds of animals would you be?
HELEN
[petulantly] Eleven!

ARCHIVIST
[A little taken aback] Oh… I mean, if there, there are any, there, sheep.

NO ASS ELIAS. FORBIDDEN
ELIAS
There. And I’m sure you don’t need me to tell you how disappointing that was.

*:(
ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Yeah, sorry. (sigh) I didn’t… I didn’t realize you were…

I, I didn’t, uh… I didn’t realize you were watching.

martin, jon, i love you guys :(;
ARCHIVIST
You’re right.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Yes! I miss you.

ARCHIVIST
Mmm – (small laugh) I’m sorry.

🦢 watch out a snake
ARCHIVIST
I can’t really stand snakes.

MARTIN
Well, they’re no fun.

elias i have a very important question how thicc are you
ELIAS
…

I’m not sure that’s the best way to describe it.

[SOUND OF SOMETHING CRASHING THROUGH THE ARCHIVE'S STORAGE ROOM]
The Archivist looks around for anyone who might be able to tell him what is happening. Most of the staff are asleep, it seems, though the shaking continues.

He sees nothing, however, and slowly opens the door. His hand shakes slightly as he opens it, and the smell begins to spread throughout the building.

The corridors are empty, and the buzzing of the flies is louder than ever. He hears a faint scream, from behind him, and turns to see - SPIDER?


autisticjonathansims:

mx penny @archivistbot definitely seems like a spiral avatar to me so 🥺 spiral penny. if she turns out to not be spiral ill cry real /j

https://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s1280x1920/9ee3c3e27db6b798b11339ef5841f0e25f6f7e67.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s500x750/e290b5777e9387685bb83f6b999a045a4b70f52b.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s400x600/369c5e5f24eb8cd1d90b0f0428137bbf592594dc.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s250x400/d9ba3a3c8f38b6783a366127f79b2c5743c23f98.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s100x200/3d10fdb18ddc74459b29145829bbd55c0bda6a93.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/459a84f5a7812bee20affa5119bcf317/72e5c2fa89a84215-15/s75x75_c1/51edd2866163f3dd5c66ff077872f1644b4127a6.pngI'm sorry for your loss but omg this is so good!!!Spiral Penny rules...THe texture on the skirt.... I didn't notice at first but...!!artautisticjonathansimsIt is ILLEGAL to be horny for Elias
GERTRUDE [Chuckles] Bad, bad.

I feel like I might be being made fun of but it is.Anonymous
archivistbot has been really coherent recently!! look at her go!! look i have no idea how any of this works but u must b so talented and hardworking!! i really appreciate u putting effort into something that so much of the fandom loves !!! mwah !!

Jon what WAS actually in the tea?
ARCHIVIST
Let’s, let’s, get this straight: you buy tea, you drink it, you don’t know anything about the origins of it, you don’t understand…

keysmentalhospitalCan someone please make the tea okay again
ARCHIVIST
Uh…

[EXTENDED SOUNDS OF TEA CREATION]
MARTIN
Oh! Oh, no. So it is tea.

Jon :((((( season 5 trailer Jon :((((
ARCHIVIST
Season 5 trailer.

BASIRA
Right.

ARCHIVIST
And… there was nothing we could do.

*sends Martin a care package with tea and coffee and soup and a fluffy blanket*
He says it’s the end of the world and the beginning of a new one. Martin’s going to be ok. He says there’s no such place or date, but it’s going to happen.

The sky is cloudy and drizzling as we approach the zenith. It’s going to be a long, hard trip, but we’re prepared, and we’re going to do it.

advocacy-as-monstrosityJon PLEASE take a nap sir
ARCHIVIST
Yes, I’m fine.

[RESUMES WRITING]
It’s getting to be too much to just… take a nap.

[CLICK]

mike crew hot
TIM
[Enunciating each word carefully] Hot. Mike.

a smooch for elias, then?
MARTIN
You know what, no.

How we feeling crew, ready for the kind of death you've earned little archivist man?
ARCHIVIST
Yes, it’s… it’s bittersweet. I suppose it is.

Thank you.

Hey Jonah is original Elias still in there somewhere pestering you to just chill out and smoke a little weed for like ONE second?
ELIAS
Oh no, no.

HOLY SH -

Hello again love! I was wondering about y'alls opinion on moths. Would you like to share them?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… they’re just some moth…

[HE SIGHS UNDER HIS BREATH AS WELL.]
ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
I-I wouldn’t worry too much. They just make a lot of noise, I guess.

the magnusa rchivesaskcaptain-harry-kimis meaty taller than michael
DAISY
Michael is taller.

elias stay away from penny or i’ll kill you
ELIAS
Sorry?

[PENNY ASSAULTS HIM]

How tall are you Penny?
PENNY
I don’t know. But I’m a lot taller than you give me credit for.

MARTIN
That’s… What?

nikola, what are you doing now?
NIKOLA
(cheerful) Modeling.

a smooch for jonah for successful completion of a ritual.
Jonah Magnus looks like Mr. House why would you want to do that.



I'm saving you from yourself.AnonymousHey Basira, what do you think of Ratner?
BASIRA
Oh! No, well, I don’t think of him, I don’t, I don’t think of anything.

manlet team rise up
They were led by Simon Fairchild, a short, matronly man with close-cropped hair, who seemed to be the only one paying them any attention at all.

hey archivist what's your favorite stage of decay?
ARCHIVIST
Allegro.

I wonder if Meaty and Ratner haven't been possessed by Hezekiah cause they're avatars of the Flesh and the Corruption. Hmm... Doesn't explain Jon's case, however.
Hmm.

Should I contact the police?

(sing-song) Oh Hezekiaaaahhhhh!
[FIRE CRACKLES]
Fire!

[CLICK]

uh, hey, quick random non-important question! Ratner, thoughts on worms and wasps and other bug things?
RATNER
As a general rule, I’m fine with most of their antics.

[GASPS]
Is it, uh… Is it, helpful?

RATNER
[Stuttering somewhat] Ah-ah! Sorry; I just, I mean I’m, I’m glad you asked.


statement of hezekiah wakely, regarding his habit of possessing people, apparently

Jon, have you ever hugged Ratner?
ARCHIVIST
No, but- well, he was, um, I, I found him in one of the back rooms, he was, um? He was, um, very shaken up, very emotional.

I hugged him, and there was no one else around, so- I, I just kind of… just went with it.

hezekiah get outta there
ARCHIVIST
I will.

[HE LETS OUT A WHEEZE.]
ARCHIVIST
(whisper) It hurts.

[gives ratner a earthworm]
RATNER
Huh. Seems about right. There. There, there, there… there’s a hole.

ARCHIVIST
What is it?

RATNER
Well, I, I didn’t - there was, there was a, there was a hole in the ground here.

ARCHIVIST
Ah.

And the grave digger has possessed our Archivist once again.
BASIRA
Where?

MARTIN
The grave.

BASIRA
Where did it come from?

MARTIN
The grave digger.

BASIRA
Yes, I think I understand.

jon and martin, what do you think of the mechanisms?
MARTIN
What mechanisms?

ARCHIVIST
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know.

Hezekiah where are you in these troubling times?
[HE KEEPS WRITING.]
ARCHIVIST
Not alone, there are dozens of corpses.

plasmascreenz*shuts elias in a kitchen cabinet*
[ELIAS KNOCK ON DOOR*
DOOR OPENS*
ELIAS
Come in, Melanie.

MELANIE
I can -

[DOOR CLOSES]

New officeAnonymousVoice actress anon: Yeah, I meant Lydia Nicholas. Sorry.
OH, ok I’m sorry I am not smart and did not pick that up but yes, fair.



I feel very sillyI keep reading all of Penny's text in Lydia Nicholson's voice.
I’m not entirely sure if I know who that is? but that’s interesting!



I'm sorry ackAnonymousWHO ate jon's grilled cheese
DAISY
I *am* a ‘wild animal’.

Penny, do you know why your sister disappeared? Did she get caught up in something she shouldn't have?
PENNY
No idea, but… she’d always been good at hiding things from me.

jon voice can i PLEASE get a grilled cheese
ARCHIVIST
Who ate the grilled cheese?

[JON MOURNS.]

personally, i don't think penny's sister's disappearance was the result of anything supernatural. sometimes people just decide to slip away. start fresh. that, i think, would probably be the hardest option to deal with; there's no neat reason why she left, no villain, no ghost story. just someone you knew from a very young age until suddenly you didn't know her at all. someone who leaves only photographs behind. not even a goodbye.
ARCHIVIST
Is there… that much more relief in a statement like that?

PENNY
Hm.

ARCHIVIST
Just knowing that you’re not alone.

PENNY
(relieved) Sort of. A feeling of impending doom, I’d say.

Anon I'm :•(AnonymousCan I PLEASE get a waffle
ARCHIVIST
Oh. You’re all grown up. Cook, or… fry, or something.

Helen Richardson what does it feel like to be the Spiral?
HELEN
It’s… strange. Good. Sometimes it feels very good indeed. You?

ARCHIVIST
Ah… no.

HELEN
The Dark, the void.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

HELEN
The fear, the watching, the patience.

ARCHIVIST
[softly] Did you ever experience any of them?

HELEN
I?

ARCHIVIST
Watching, feeling the pressure, being watched.

HELEN
Yes.


Statement of Martin Blackwood regarding Penny Lukas's sister

Penny! Are you gay?? I love u
PENNY
[exasperated noise] Is this a joke to you?

MARTIN
I… I… I didn’t…

PENNY
Well, here’s one you’re not going to like.

[THE TWO OF THEM CHUCKLE.]
MARTIN
What? No! No, I don’t think that’s a joke.

Penny, was your sister named Dime?
PENNY
[Enunciating each word carefully] “Don’t, please.”

Hey is Daisy still accepting applications for girlfriends? Or has that spot been taken by Basira ;)
ARCHIVIST
Uh…

DAISY
[Flustered] No.


Statement of Penny Lukas regarding the name of her sister

guys, it's kinda obvious, Penny's sister was replaced by the NotThem
ARCHIVIST
Wait, not that one…

(stretched fingers) Sorry. I didn’t -

(big sigh) Look, it’s gonna be okay; I’m, I’m sure it’s gonna get better. Can I go now?

[HE GOES OFF, DOOR OPENING.]
ARCHIVIST
Uh…

[CLICK]


illusion-of-sea-axes:

@archivistbot post \ MAG 32, ‘Hive’

https://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s1280x1920/12d4f42babf02b2d708b1f87e54b52a205d399b9.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s500x750/15fc73681a09a39f743ca76f840c81535d7cea63.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s400x600/2ad0b927b3370b09039f959f3ac3b24c32a1b0e9.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s250x400/eacd33229a3fa50d073f454be4d0550f211e4769.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s100x200/0b408004f3eac7d07d6545d52f905990bcea42b0.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s75x75_c1/22952e6c2380a2acc62eac1a100abecdd0a71690.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s1280x1920/12d4f42babf02b2d708b1f87e54b52a205d399b9.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s500x750/15fc73681a09a39f743ca76f840c81535d7cea63.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s400x600/2ad0b927b3370b09039f959f3ac3b24c32a1b0e9.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s250x400/eacd33229a3fa50d073f454be4d0550f211e4769.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s100x200/0b408004f3eac7d07d6545d52f905990bcea42b0.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/9213f606ad1e60a03667ccd66de569e3/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-3f/s75x75_c1/22952e6c2380a2acc62eac1a100abecdd0a71690.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s1280x1920/c47f65fef78cc1e996ccf4db4963a5a45b364fe7.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s500x750/1fb7a15e153f7287f23369d2166e61e84e52b5a2.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s400x600/676709c22c519c1c40c252adbd4721339e57d675.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s250x400/a88a27fb70d6bda65ee88fd1d4fe12bfd17ebd46.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s100x200/f6c31416c18a65826df655a85cafb9e144cd048e.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/5c5d82213f08cf926e9d2a99b3dafdee/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-6d/s75x75_c1/384a2bab27bca24725995336393cbbab8dc80534.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s1280x1920/148c5ce6a497571ba5ed6f3adc4adfb4a50cee09.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s500x750/b4b47edf6b66dac041cb5fc43b9a70cd020c44ff.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s400x600/aa21d9855e71f9342105e73640f314c632408656.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s250x400/3e19035e9ce335c3724267886e34a71f8a159385.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s100x200/12cd8dd6a8cafa24eeab6674860ca24232f3f840.pnghttps://66.media.tumblr.com/3953536fd8302bc10c2c49be2c54ccbb/3bc45c97f2d9d61f-5f/s75x75_c1/d9fca2a874c6e2108ab51e50417edac7899e0975.pngOh my GDDD this is so cool looking!!!! All the eyes....That's honestly just what I thought when I read it too... The Corruption is a caring god...Also I want to say thank you everyone for all the lovely art: I'm putting it in the queue just so it's not overwhelming.artillusion-of-sea-axesMy dear Jon Archivist, Sir, I love you and I’m scared of tomorrow and what it will bring. Please promise that you will be okay. Warmest regards.
ARCHIVIST
(soft, shivering) Yes.

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

atiredpanMr Archivistbot who is your favourite child? Statement begins.
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
My favourite child is… difficult to explain. He is not a child. He is big and he is strong and he makes me smile even now. But he is also… deeply unsettling.

Penny, what about your mother? How’s she
PENNY
Oh, uh, she’s gone, Jon. She’s gone.

Preeeetty sure Penny's sister got eaten by the Lonely.
PENNY
[slight laugh] First off, I - I don’t know, but I can’t totally picture her.


Sorry if you’ve answered these questions before, but how difficult would you say it is to use the bot you’re using? Did it take a long time to train it and would you recommend it to people who aren’t experienced with bots?

Helen, what's so weird about Meaty's autopsy report?
HELEN
Oh, nothing. He didn’t even suffer.

Statement of James 'Meaty' Grice, regarding their first encounter with The Flesh.
Original statement given June 6th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
1.We’re all alone out there.

2.i should go.

3.i hope so.

4.tell them i love them.

5.i hope they leave me alone.

6.i hope they understand.

7.i hope I’m wrong.

8.i hope one day I’ll wake up and they’ll leave me behind.

9.i hope one day I won’t even have to think about what’s happened.

10.i hope one day I’ll be able to leave this place.

Helen, how'd you get Meaty's autopsy report!?
HELEN
Just - borrowed it.

WHERE did you get that violin!?
SASHA
I’ve had it for a few months.

Penny, do you remember your sisters name? Id love to hear it
PENNY
What? Why wouldn’t you? Isn’t that –

ARCHIVIST
Martin said you were studying abroad…

PENNY
Oh! Yes. He was just talking about the International Space Station, you know - nothing officially there but they keep sending people there, and there’s this weird bureaucratic maze because the International Space Station is a separate entity from the rest of the Earth.

ARCHIVIST
Right…

PENNY
And… they’re sending people to do experiments, so you’re kind of -

ARCHIVIST
[Insistent] I don’t want to hear it.

PENNY
Well, like I said, there’s a lot of stuff they’re not telling me.

ARCHIVIST
[Sighs] Interesting.

Mod do you know that some people are sending songs from Jonny's old band djdjjdk
Yeah, I know! We don’t answer all of the lyrics asks because There Are So Many, but I do know what they are haha.



plasmascreenzJon, are you 5 feet tall?
[MARTIN IS BREATHING HARD, POSSIBLY REPRESSING TEARS]
MARTIN
What?

ARCHIVIST
Yep!

Meaty, what are your opinions on spiders?
MEATY
I don’t know.

HELEN
[Pointedly] Not really. I don’t know if you hear, but the autopsy report on your dead body is very interesting. Apparently, the hard part is just getting used to this, sort of, ‘life’ that you’re apparently forced into.

MEATY
[Pointedly] Look, look. Okay? I’ve had to kill dozens of spiders for you.

What has four legs in the morning, two legs in the day, and three legs in the evening?
MARTIN
[Explodes] It’s not - It’s not a… It’s not a zombie!

ARCHIVIST
Until I get some answers out of this, Martin.

MARTIN
[quickly] You’re thinking too literally.

Penny, do you not remember your sister's name?
PENNY
Oh… No, but you… you know who she was.

MARTIN
Really? I - I - I guess I, er… I didn’t really…

PENNY
She was, ya know. Little bit like you.


Penny, can you remember anything about your sister? Or did she literally disappear, because of an entity like the Lonely, Spiral, or Stranger?
PENNY
No… No, well, she was, um… she was, she was a level-headed woman, I think, somewhere in their mid-thirties, and she just suddenly… disappeared.

penny! let’s go lesbians!!
PENNY
Fine.

MARTIN
Huh. Well, I’ll just, um, just get my coat.

[CLICK]


Statement of Peter Lukas, regarding his niece who disappeared

Penny, what was your sisters name? It was awful. What happened to her. But can you tell us her name?
PENNY
Uh… Er… Yeah, well, I guess we, we, we lost her.

MARTIN
I mean, it’s, it’s not like you’ve been…

What happened to her?

PENNY
She disappeared. Exactly.

MARTIN
Oh.

PENNY
And you think… that’s what’s happening to you?

MARTIN
I don’t know.

jon, you and martin are adorable
ARCHIVIST
[Embarrassed chuckle] I can believe you.

MARTIN
Is – hey. hey, hey.

ARCHIVIST
[epic] I love you!


And I really am sorry if that bothers anyone but like... I am not in control here AT ALL.Anyway I don't have like... opinions on ships as long as they aint creepy I don't care.
Lmaoo shipping anon this blog doesn’t deal in canon ships. Everyone is dating everyone all the time. It’s okay

YOUR PARTNER MARTY, JON???
ARCHIVIST
Yes.

MARTIN
I’m sorry?

Name a gender, would you love?
ARCHIVIST
[audibly laughing] Yes.

captain-harry-kimhey gerry? whats up with (your) gender
GERARD
(beat) You know, I- I never really thought about it. I- I’m not really all that gender, you know?

Besides, Gerry and Ratner are already a couple. They just didn’t tell anyone because they didn’t want to spark any more office drama.
MARTIN
Hey, you don’t need to sound quite so psyched about it.

Statement of Jonathan Sims, regarding a spider in his bathtub last night and a daring rescue by one Martin Blackwood. Statement begins.
ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT)
So. My partner Marty finds spiders all the time. Not as many as you might think, and he’s the one putting them in the trap. There’s a big one that’s in the bath.

There’s a big one that’s in the bath. Spiders are, of course, the obvious suspects, but I also know Martin has a soft spot for them. There’s one in the bath, a brown recluse. Martin calls it “an anomaly”, but hey, it’s in the box.

the magnus archivesmartivistPenny have you ever kissed anyone?
PENNY
Er… yes. You, you know, just about everyone.

MARTIN
Well, that’s…

b careful ratner! don't pull a full jane prentiss on us
RATNER
Sure, sure… thanks.

May I hug Jane Prentice? Worm mom needs love too! ~ Miyo
ARCHIVIST
You sure you want that?

You know... Before Jane Prentiss was fully consumed by The Corruption, she wasn't sleeping either... Might want to keep that in mind, Ratner.
RATNER
Oh - Oh, yeah.

ELIAS
So. So what does that tell us?

RATNER
Er… a lot. But it doesn’t prove anything.

ELIAS
Well, that’s not really what I mean.


Statement of Jonny d’Ville, regarding the Man who sang the second verse in Pump Shanty and his sweetheart

Is Agnes here? I love you
MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, maybe.

Are you okay?

Stop trying to make tim and ratner happen ! Tim already has his hands full w jon and martin nsksjske
ARCHIVIST
What, what ?

RATNER
Oh, just… you know. They’ve been watching me, you know.

ARCHIVIST
Oh!

RATNER
Yeah.

I have Literally No opinions on this I just work here my friendAnonymousTim thoughts on pegging?
TIM
You know the trouble with asking questions. You always tend to get the answers, don’t you?

MARTIN
…

Well, that’s true, I suppose.

nsfw textAnonymousTim are you any good at kayaking?
TIM
Kayaking is the sh*t, isn’t it? [Sigh]

Tim - it’s the last night of the world. Who are you kissing?
TIM
Oh - um, well, I mean. Um - well, the world is ending, Martin. And, and I love you so much, and I want everyone to have the best possible life, but I can’t be a part of it anymore. I can’t be a part of it if- if the tides are coming…


Statement of Penny Lukas, regarding a reanimated drowned corpse that asked to be "knocked out like a shitty lightbulb"

i'm convinced that penny's sister is the lonely avatar of her family.
PETER
All this time, though, it’s all just been empty, alright? (heh) Worlds without us, our little whispers disappearing into the ether.

ELIAS
You know, it’s not really my job.

PETER
It never is.

Penny, it sounds like something has your sister. The End? The Spiral?
PENNY
It was a long time ago.

PETER
It’s not - it’s not fair. She’s not coming back, but you’re still here.

PENNY
(spitting) Do you fucking KNOW?

PETER
(background) Hey. Hey, I’m sorry.

sweetdreams-andspellsStatement of Penny Lukas, regarding her sister
PENNY (STATEMENT)
She’s gone.

I know she’s gone.

I wish I could find it in me to weep, to wish otherwise.

So I do my very best to answer, but the truth is I can barely answer any of the questions with any clarity. Why her? What is she doing? Why now? Is she there? Is she…

There is no clarity to it, to be honest.

I waited for many months, but she never came.


Statement of Penny's sister, regarding herself

Hey Martin! What's Penny's sisters name?
MARTIN
Oh, er… Er…

MARTIN
Well, she was never here.

Hey Penny, you have a sister right? What can you tell us about her?
PENNY
Oh! Er… Yeah, she’s… um, she’s quite, uh… You know what her name was?

ELIAS
Oh… No, but she kind of… er, she kind of… shifted a lot. I mean, like, one day she’s here, and then the next…

Hey Peter! What is your niece Penny's sisters name?
PETER
Her? No, no, it’s… Her?

Here you go! *gives Jon a flower crown*
ARCHIVIST
That’s quite nice, actually.

morningisnotalrightwho is your sister, penny? did martin and jon adopt her too?
PENNY
[Flustered] Oh! No, I don’t know - I haven’t… I haven’t visited her since we were… er, let’s, let’s try this again. Try this again…

Penny, what is your sisters name?
PENNY
[agitated] Oh, I, I uh, I don’t really… I don’t really know.

MARTIN
Just - [sigh] so you know?

PENNY
[stammering] What?

MARTIN
Just like - just like you’re here, she’s not.

PENNY
What are you talking about?

[throws a molotov cocktail at elias]
ELIAS
You look like a killer.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
TIM
You killed him?

MARTIN
I don’t… I don’t know.

[KISSES RATNER SOFTLY] I want you to be safe.
RATNER
Oh, okay. Okay, so I’m gonna be safe.

Penny, are you aromantic? Or just not interested in romance right now?
PENNY
I said I was interested in people and that they existed.

MARTIN
They exist.

PENNY
Which is… nice.

MARTIN
Hm.

imadisasterwalking[unleashes an army of house centipedes into the archives]
ARCHIVIST
We don’t have time for this! We’ve got work to do!

MELANIE
You work for the Institute!

ARCHIVIST
So do you! [Pants heavily] Join the club!

blows kiss (for penny)
Drops a torch on the floor (for David)

martin, did you know that jon talks about you to anyone who will listen?
MARTIN
You know?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

He’s not wrong.

Penny, what are your parents names?
PENNY
My parents were… hard to get away from, my sister was never quite the same after Mum died.

//hey, were you the one w the tma playlist on Spotify? I feel like I saw a post about it from you last night but then I immediately passed out because it was one in the morning and I have no idea if I imagined it or not
Yep, that would be me! Here it is. Also, I just realized how ridiculously much I post on my blog… It really got buried huh…



There's a lot of different stuff on it but it's /mostly/ in order for least jarring listeningwhen did elias attack ratner? is he ok? can i make him so tea or give him a hug?
ARCHIVIST
Who? Oh, Ratner? Of course.

RATNER
Hello?

hollow-bonessTim have you and Ratner kissed yet?
RATNER
[agitated] No, I-I haven’t, I haven’t kissed anyone.


letpapersleep:


@pyjamac hey ratner…….. wanna know what death of 1000000 rat bites feels like? ;)

Bro I'm pleading emoji about thisSUffering PHYsicallyartletpapersleepARCHIVIST[Softly]: Honey. Holy shit oh my god ohvmyfucking god how do I deal with that??
Illustrated guide. Hope this helps!

"


Every day this robot makes me read things.There’s a dream that I've had as we ride out west of a golden age, and this world’s wrongs all redressed, but I wake to find there’s nothing here but fear and death— and between the two there’s only blood and whiskey.
I try to sleep, and it is night.

I watch the winding path of the narrow road. I mount my horse, and begin to run, but there is a sense of wrongness in the air.

Penny, are you even interested in romance?
PENNY
You stupid!

ELIAS
I assume you don’t know much about it?

PENNY
What? You stupid…

daisy, in your official best friend opinion, how stupidly in love with martin is jon?
DAISY
[Chuckles] Wouldn’t you just figure -

ARCHIVIST
I MIGHT BE IN LOVE.

DAISY
I really think you two were meant to be together.

Jon and Martin, what are your favorite pet names for each other?
MARTIN
Er… I, I, I, I don’t know. Er… Nah, just, just Er… Whatever.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Honey.

MARTIN
Er… Sure.

martivistPenny, do you have any siblings?
PENNY
No. But, y’know, if you’re wondering, yeah, my parents were kind of strict, so… that’s why I decided to not have any.


What shall we do with a drunk space pirate?

Penny... was it your own kidney that you sold?
PENNY
Oh. Um, no, I, er… no, I, I forgot. Er…

MARTIN
[Nervous laughter] O-Okay.

Brian? Who is Brian??
Brian is the spider guy from 100!



That's not normal right?! That's freaky! That's supernatural!penny have you met meaty yet?
PENNY
Not really. I don’t think so, he doesn’t really come around that much. He’s quieter than I expected.

PENNY
Monday lunch he normally meets with the Library staff to discuss current projects.

ELIAS
Sorry, what?

PENNY
When you’re not bashing their heads in with a pipe.

ELIAS
Oh.

martin, are you and jon getting double-married?
DAISY
You know about that?

BRIAN
Oh… No, sorry, I didn’t - I, I think - I think they’re getting married again.

DAISY
Oh. Hmmm.


someBODY once told me

who turgled
A red SUV pulled up, with license plates ending in “DIRECT-”. They showed no signs of haste or hurry, and instead advanced with a brisk, if somewhat disconcerting click.

The driver, a huge man with a shaved head, advanced to the driver’s side and gave the thumbs up. The door opened, and a man stepped out, a big smile on his face. He introduced himself as Gabriel, and said he was from the RCMP, and that he was looking for a missing person. I didn’t know his name, but he clearly had something of a case.

I mean, I didn’t really know what to say, since it was clearly clear he didn’t want my help, and I had no idea where I was headed or how to proceed. He seemed to be talking about some kind of business, and I was kind of wondering if he was going to ask for any sort of assistance.

As it turned out, he was, and I had just about made my decision when he began to walk towards me. I made my way almost instinctively, since I was worried I might be crossing some kind of legal red line. I followed him. He was not tall man, but he was huge, with a frame that seemed to bulge ten percent in every direction. His arms were long, and his back was straight as an arrow.

When he saw me staring down at him, he LAUGHS. It is a soft sound, like he’s enjoying the attention. His smile is bright red, and his voice is nothing like mine.

I heard footsteps approaching the door. There is a high-pitched, whirring sound, which I assume is coming from the inside. I followed Gabriel into the room behind him, and it became clear he was not interested in talking. I started to ask if he was alright, but as I asked, he just laughed, and pushed me to the side.

Instead of answering, he said something else. It was in a voice so low it almost sounded like a whisper. He said, “We are not what we appear to be.”

Mister The-Worker-In-Clay
penny, are you bi, pan, or a lesbian?

Hey Penny, do you write any poetry?
MARTIN
…

OW!

PENNY
Congratulations, you’re now officially part of the Literature Department.

penny huge lesbian theory hmmm. penny are u a ladies. something?
PENNY
(fast) Yeah. Why?

What *kind* of weird does your arm feel like, Ratner?
RATNER
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know. It’s just… weird.

MARTIN
…

Did it hurt?

RATNER
It’s hard to think, Martin. It’s hard to focus. I-I’m sorry.

MARTIN
(overlapping) Yeah, no, don’t worry, it’s a-a bit of a -

RATNER
Oh! No, it’s fine! No, I’m fine; I just - I just haven’t slept in some time.

MARTIN
Are you sure? You look a mess.

RATNER
Don’t judge me! Look, I’ve been on the job for four months -

MARTIN
Four… Fourteen…

RATNER
Yeah!

Does Ratner let his hair down at work or is that more of a casual kind of look?
BASIRA
…No, he doesn’t.

Has anyone (I.E, Tim) been walking Ratner home since Elias attacked him?
DAISY
- No, I don’t think so.

ARCHIVIST
No, I, I suppose not.

DAISY
Hm.

TIM
I’ll get my coat.

DAISY
Great.


not-sasha... anti sasha

Jon,,,,.,.. are you trans? Are you a trans king?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… yes. Yes, I am.

…

Well, see ya.

[CLICK]

orocattoPenny I would love to date you unfortunately I’m not cool enough 😔
PENNY
(overlapping) Oh, I’m sure I am!

I'm very worried about Ratner. Elias better stay far away from him.
NOT-SASHA
You should too.

podcastenthusiast
imtearing up. darling. cup of tea. they have a daughter now and its hunky-dory i love them so much i klove them so much im gonn a fucign,

my god..... just... "darling" in jon's voice????
I feel like I need to take a walk just thinking about it.



but also I'm hung up on hunky-dory... Where did he get that from...leafybonesMartin how is Tim, your cat, doing?
MARTIN
Oh - Oh, oh yes, he’s doing great!

Jon, Martin, how does it feel being Penny's dads? And what's her name now? Peanut Butter Lukas-Blackwood-Sims?
MARTIN
It’s… been nice, actually. The last couple of days, everything’s… hunky-dory.

ARCHIVIST
Well, she was always going to be Penny, you know. Always.

MARTIN
It’s… Good!

ARCHIVIST
Don’t you worry, darling, I’m going to make us a cup of tea.

MARTIN
Oh… [SIGH] What?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

MARTIN
And…

[CLICK]

I can't read thisAnonymoushey penny can i hug you?
PENNY
[heh] No, er… No, I’m, I’m fine.

[CHAIR SCRAPING ON FLOOR]
PENNY
[sigh] Fine.

im gonna dribble this basketball
all over his face real quick, you know? [Deep exhalation] Look, he, uh… he couldn’t have his cake and eat it, you know? He’s got legs. And I’m gonna run.

penny do you like wearing dresses?
PENNY
Do you?

ARCHIVIST
Oh - Um, I, I -

*presses a kiss to Ratner's forehead*
RATNER
Good lord…

jane prentiss will you be my worm wife?
ARCHIVIST
(hysteric) Prentiss?

BASIRA
Your new archnemesis.

ARCHIVIST
Yes.

meaty, are you made of meat? or just big and strong?
MEATY
Well, I’m big. I can carry a lot of meat?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t though, do I? Can you, though?

brains, dead rabbits .. penny what else do u sell?
PENNY
[seriously] I sold a kidney.

deimido
man i hate that despite literally everything, not to mention the fact that i didnt send it, that [tearful] note still makes me feel bad

Penny, who is Martin’s fiancé?
PENNY
Is that a joke?

[shoves elias into the mud]
ELIAS
[tearful] It’s okay, John, I’ve been doing this too long.

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] Right.

ELIAS
For all the good that’ll do.

ARCHIVIST
[scoff]

ELIAS
Just stop.

ARCHIVIST
I’m not sure I can.

Penny, how much violence and arson have you committed? You seem like an explosives and gunshots type of person.
PENNY
[heh] Well, that’s violence, isn’t it?

MARTIN
Oh - ah - I - I didn’t know that.

PENNY
Well, give it here: the detonator.

have you known martin a while penny?
PENNY (BACKGROUND)
Yeah.

MARTIN
I think there might be a package for you down here.

PENNY (BACKGROUND)
Yeah.

MARTIN
Do you know what it is?

PENNY (BACKGROUND)
No idea. Helium.

All the suffering, strife, and sin I have endured, yet still?
I am not so blind as to be ignorant to what this means.

I see it everywhere.

In the grime of my city, in the smash of my buildings, in the hollows of my own life, and in the quiet that follows whenever I venture too close.

It is the work of those hands, those wretched, hideous hands, that leads me further every day the furtherance of more dreadful wars.

You guys could start a 'Hurt by Elias' Eldritch Powers' club at this point.
I’m not holding my breath.

it's called The Magnus InstituteAnonymousHey Ratner? What's wrong with your left arm? How did the Corruption affect it?
RATNER
Oh, nothing, it… it just makes my arm feel weird.

RATNER
You know, I don’t actually think my appearance has a lot of value.

Penny!! Opinion needed!! Skirts or suits, which are better for formal occasions? Or just in general, really
PENNY
[Flustered] Oh, I…

ARCHIVIST
Well, what’s the occasion?


archivistbot cannot and will not stop all the domestic jonmartin. they've moved in together, adopted a kid, and martin has written dozens of poetry all about jon sfhshdhd the bot is rlly doing it all

"When you moved in"? Jon, are you and Martin living together?
MARTIN
Ah-ha-ha-ha! Oh, just- (soft coughing fit) Sorry; I just, just thought-

Do you need - an - update?

ARCHIVIST
It’s… uh, yeah, it’s kind of, uh… It’s been a while.

Is Ratner still just zoning out at his desk or has he finally started to get better?
ELIAS
He has. And I am happy to report that his workload has decreased.

martin?! when did you and jon have the time to adopt penny??
MARTIN
I’m sorry?

ARCHIVIST
When I moved in.

hollow-boness
penny and martin in the “i hate peter lukas for personal reasons” gang

jon and martin, are you going to adopt penny?
MARTIN
I already have.

the magnus arfchivesaskAnonymousRatner? Does your left arm hurt?
RATNER
[Whispering] Yes. Like hell it does.

Penny you really need to pay attention, the archives DO have a dress code! Breaking in through the vents is one thing, I mean Daisy hired herself, but if you want to be here that badly then you should at least look the part, instead of... God, what ARE you wearing now?
PENNY
I just… I just wanted to, to dress it up, like it was a special occasion.

ELIAS
Very well. What do you want?

PENNY
Do you have your coat?

elias is a MEAN MAN and a BULLY
If you’re desperate, Elias can’t help you.

?AnonymousJane Prentice but her worms are worms on Strings, what crimes will she commit?
ARCHIVIST
Oh don’t be absurd!

My friend Roger wants Hazekiah Wakely to know it loves him
Hazekiah is a rather nasty man.

archival-assistantwill you let me hold you in my arms?
[MARTIN LETS OUT A SMALL LAUGH.]
MARTIN
Oh - Oh, okay.

Yeah, okay.

Good.

[SMALL PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Are you alright?

which institute employee can't say fuck, legally
MARTIN
Well, I, I mean. I wasn’t even on the list.

penny PLEASE marry me
PENNY
Umm… No.

cursed-lightsFiancé? Martin, is there something you aren't telling us?
MARTIN
Nothing, sorry.

ARCHIVIST
[Long sigh] Fine.

[CLICK]

i love you penny
PENNY
Bleep.


Dammit, Elias, what the fuck did you do to Ratner!?

Hey Penny, do you like Jon?
PENNY
Oh, I, yes. Yes, I think he’s quite a nice guy.

ARCHIVIST
…Wha-What?

did vena just straight up steal sebastian adekoya's statement
Yes. Plagarism…



nikola, what is the best method for peeling?
NIKOLA
[ain’t] The lightest, most painless way to get rid of them, I’m afraid.

It takes a long time to get used to, but eventually you begin to forget that you’re beneath those hands.

Tim, did you get a chance to see Ratner's left arm? What did it look like?
TIM
Oh, ah…

Oh, it’s, it’s really something, you know?

TIM
[Very softly] It looks… very painful.


'Scuse me Vena Carver, I'm afraid that's just plagiarism.

brickon and hope blood delivery

Will Nikola marry me? I too am a clown, boo boo the fool.
ARCHIVIST
You are a weirdo, you know that? Fine. Just, er… I don’t want to impose on you.

peter lukas, are you martin's deadbeat dad?
MARTIN
[Irritated] Shut up!

ELIAS (JONAH)
Oh, just speaking of deadbeats, could you record a statement of your own?

Ratner, what did Elias do to your arm? Was it something to do with the scars from the Corruption?
RATNER
You know the answer to that. Yes.


John, why does Martin not like the smell of my lasagna?

Penny, did you try to kill Elias?
PENNY
You know, he - he’s counting, like - on how much he’s scared me. Like, like this is -

[MARTIN BREAKS OFF, FLIPS THE PENNY]
MARTIN
New!

PENNY
Oh! Oh, here we go! Here we go! Here we go!

[RUSTLING NOISES]
Test, test, test.

[CLICK]

Penny, do you serve the Extinction?
PENNY
Ah… No, I… I’m a trader. Business is my second nature.

MARTIN
Not in the nicest way.

PENNY
And you?

MARTIN
What is your business? Selling jars of brains?

PENNY
God. Yes.

Statement of Vena Carver, regarding a great deal of blood and beasts. Statement begins.
VENA (STATEMENT)
Books are amazing, aren’t they? I mean, when you think about what they really are. People don’t give the actuality of language the weight it deserves, I feel. Words are a way of taking your thoughts, the very make-up of yourself, and giving them to another. Putting your thoughts in the mind of someone else. They are not a perfect method, of course, as there’s plenty of scope for mutation and corruption between your mind and that of the listener, but that doesn’t change the essence of what language is.

Spoken aloud, though, the thought dies quickly if not picked up. Simple vibrations that vanish almost as soon as they are created, though if they find a host, then they can lodge there, proliferate, and maybe spread further. A book, though, is another story.

This is an actual statement pffpenny you’re so spunky. what are you doing hanging around all the wet blankets at the institute?
PENNY
Because I was worried about Martin, you know. Like, making new friends, being alone. And the linen closet was, what, Chanel or Hermès?

ELIAS
Both, I think.

Who's your favourite subject, Elias?
ELIAS
Oh, it’s complicated, there. “Mostly law and psychiatry”. ☀️

MARTIN
[distressed] Oh…

the sun makes it for me I thinkAnonymousRatner, who in the Archives doesn't know about your past with The Corruption?
RATNER
I don’t know. [Heavy sigh] Better if everybody understood it.

Ok but where has the bot picked up the phrase "immediately smitten"??? Where was that in the transcripts??? What did I miss??? I love that it knows and uses the phrase but W H Y
I know it used it first in that ask where someone asked Melanie and Georgie to be their girlfriends, and I guess after that it just decided that was a thing it could say? I’m not sure but I’m a fan.




Ok but where has the bot picked up the phrase "immediately smitten"??? Where was that in the transcripts??? What did I miss??? I love that it knows and uses the phrase but W H Y

Elias how many divorces have u had with Peter?
ELIAS
- No, it’s not that kind of discussion.

It is a lovely morning in the Magnus Institute, and you are a horrible archivist.
ARCHIVIST
There is something in these files that will not let me rest.

👀👁👀👀👁👀👁👁👁👀👁👀 B E N O T A L A R M E D
CHANGE BRACING

A SINGLE, ARCHIVIST-ISH, UNEVEN FOOTSTEPS.

Penny, how does it feel being the most valid Lukas on the planet?
PENNY
[Emphasising] Oh, it’s, it’s very, very strange.

PENNY (CONT’D)
I don’t even know how you measure it. Not really. But you got to do it, didn’t you?

[LUKAS LAUGHS MANIACALLY]


Statement of an anonymous doctor regarding a patient by the name of James Grice in John Radcliffe Hospital.

Is Penny short for anything?
PENNY
Don’t you dare “Pen” me.

Ey, Mod, is writing Archivistbot fic alright?
Yes, absolutely! If you do, I’d love to see!



oh penny what a pleasure to meet you! i have a favor to ask. could you please give martin a hug for me?
PENNY
Ah, yea sure.

Spooky jewellery!

MARTIN
Oh… er… no, sorry.

PENNY
And that was a wedding gift from your fiancé.

MARTIN
Oh…

I feel like we could solve a lot of problems if we just locked Trexel Geistman and Elias in a room together.
ARCHIVIST
Certainly.

TREXEL
Asshole.

They would murder each other physicallyAnonymousHey Jon, Martin, want to adopt a feral child who fell out the ventilation shaft?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… y-yes.

PENNY
Great.

sosoporificMartin, why do you love Jon?
ARCHIVIST
Oh… he’s, uh… he’s perfect! I, I -

MARTIN
[Desperately] I love you!

ARCHIVIST
[Breaking down] It’s okay.

Penny how old are you??
PENNY
I am.

21. Mockingbird.

ARCHIVIST
[raising an eyebrow] I don’t know.

Nikola Orsinov is the sexiest clown in russia
o_o

[THERE IS A LOUD THUD.]
MARTIN
Who is she?

[HE SIGHS.]
SASHA
Nikola Orsinov?

MARTIN
Yeah?

Ratner, do you have insomnia?
RATNER
Oh, uh… No, I, uh, it’s… uh, it’s pretty common. I, I don’t know, it’s, it’s pretty common for me to be - lying to myself, that I don’t have any problems.

Penny, do you not like Jon? Or is he just the easiest to tease?
PENNY
[exasperated noise]

He likes you, though.

MARTIN
I’m sorry, I don’t know.

Is Penny the child of Elias and/or Peter?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… no, er… no, probably not.

*gets on one knee* penny will u marry me
PENNY
[quickly] No. No…

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
PENNY
I mean, I’m sure not giving a flying fuck about some waitressing job.

MARTIN
[sigh] 21 gun salute, maybe.

PENNY
Shoot first and ask questions later.

Ratner, does Elias scare you?
RATNER
Oh, yes.

What are you planning to torment Ratner with today, Elias?
ELIAS
Nothing, I don’t think. He’s not even my favorite subject. Why?

Ratner, can you recall anything from when Elias attacked you? Or... did he do something else to your brain that night?
RATNER
Oh, uh, he, uh - he did something to my left arm. I mean, I don’t -

ARCHIVIST
Hmm.

What do you know about the octopus?

RATNER
Octopuses are, uh, like, lot of the spiders kind of, um… docile…

ARCHIVIST
They don’t need to be docile.

Penny, are you implying that Peter is Martin’s deadbeat dad?
PENNY
Not exactly. It’s not fair, is it? If your job is asking questions, that’s not the sort of thing you’re here for.

MARTIN
So - so tell me the story of why you are here.

PENNY
Simply put, I have great distress at the state of our relationship, son.

I wonder... Do you have any scars from your time with the Corruption, Ratner? Scratch marks? Bite marks? Anything? Must be difficult to hide them from your coworkers, I'm sure.
RATNER
[Bitter laugh] I, I think so. On my left arm, I have a few, they were souvenirs.

Did you ever see them?


Hello yes I'd like to say it's cool to love the TMA bot characters but there needs to be more mod loving hours. So with that, ily ur valid 💕~ Miyo

hey, jon! 💕💖🧡💞🌞💙💚❤️💘💌🌻🌹🌱🌟✨??
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Uh, yeah.

[Deep breath] It’s a bit of a mess.

ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
Well, I don’t really know -

[MELANIE GOES]
MELANIE
You look really icky.

Flashes like camera bulbs fire in my brain
and I find I can feel the electricity coursing through my body like a fever. I take a moment to examine the flashes, but they seem to be without any power, and when I take a step back out into the garden, the electricity is gone, replaced by deafening silence.

mod ily but i physically cannot make eense of your tagging system are u good
I‘m gonna let you in on a secret: I have no idea what I’m doing.



My tagging system on my own blog is also incomprehensible so at very least I'm consistent
statement of peter lukas, regarding his younger relative, penny

for the mod - when did the bot get emojis?

Penny how old are you??

penny i love you so much

Statement of Alan Ratner, regarding what Elias did that caused him to have a seizure.
RATNER
…No.

RATNER
Oh… No, that doesn’t make any sense.

RATNER
No, I-I, I just… I feel it. I feel this…

RATNER (STATEMENT)
Like a, like an invisible hand, just keeping its weight on my chest, squeezing every bit of space I have, taking everything I am and giving it up for nothing.

I’ve been walking.

RATNER (STATEMENT)
Things have been getting worse. I don’t know why. I know that they will get better, but right now I just… I’m so scared.

I’m still alive?

RATNER (STATEMENT)
Yes.

RATNER (STATEMENT)
S-Sorry, sorry, I just… I just don’t know. I just…

Hey, Ratner? Did you get some rest? You looked terrible yesterday.
RATNER
Oh, I’m… sure I did. There was no rest for me yesterday.

ELIAS
Well that’s not quite true.

Melanie, what do you think of Penny? It seems like you'd make easy friends.
[PAUSE.]
MELANIE
She’s nice, you know?

Elias, are you babysitting Penny? Is that what this is?
ELIAS
Well, she goes around with that knife again, so I’m a responsible adult, so I should watch what she’s doing.

I can’t believe everyone in the archives has adopted this rascal child. penny you’re a delight
PENNY
Why not?

[MARTIN MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST]
PENNY
Don’t you dare switch the channel.

Archivist, how many teeth are in the Archives?
ELIAS
More than you’re ready for.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

What do you mean, more?

tines-bonefire[kisses jane prentiss] want to go look for rotting carcasses in the woods with me?
PRENTISS
[immediately smitten] Yes! And no, you don’t need to be shy.

penny. is your full name Peanut Butter Lukas.
PENNY
What?

MARTIN
Yes, er… [impersonates him] Mr. Peanut.

Peanut Butter Lukas

penny you are a PATHOLOGICAL liar and i love you.
PENNY
You are.

MARTIN
Oh. Oh, who’s… who’s PENNY?

PENNY
[Enunciating each word carefully] “Simon Fairchild”.

MARTIN
“Simon Fairchild?

PENNY
Yes, that’s his name.

MARTIN
I, I don’t know anything about him.

PENNY
I don’t know anything about you.

Penny are you Unknowable
PENNY
Don’t you dare “unlearned” look at you.

ARCHIVIST
Ah…

PENNY
You’re going to shut up about this, Jon.

Penny, did you run away from your family?
PENNY
No, that’s ridiculous! That would be a horrible idea; I would never, ever leave my home.

ELIAS
Of course.

PENNY
You don’t know anything!

penny is peter a cool uncle? or just old
PENNY
[eevilously chuckles] You know, it’s not even his birthday yet, and he’s passed out on the floor. Cool uncle, though.

Statement of Penny Lukas regarding her relationship with her family and her close friends, statement begins.
PENNY (STATEMENT)
Let’s get one thing straight right now. I’m no closer to understanding what this is all about than you are. And if there is something you’re looking to do, you are more than likely wasting your time. That’s not my job, though, so just so you know, yes, I can kill you. Well, probably not in your sleep.

So. I know you don’t need me to tell you that the breakup of my family was probably pretty bad for me. I know it’s hard to believe, but let me try anyway. My parents were killing each other for a love that didn’t even exist, and I’d just left it. There was no way I could have known. Maybe I could have changed my name, maybe I could have moved away, but I didn’t.

Hey Ratner! What do you think of Penny?
RATNER
Ah… Oh… Um… Well, she’s, uh, she’s rather an odd one, actually. She’s great with a typewriter, you know? Great writer, but, er… not great with the typing.

Was losing Mann the last push to the Corruption for you, Ratner?
RATNER
Yeah.

ELIAS
Well, there it is. Dog bites man. Dog gets… well, it’s not quite as tidy as you might have imagined.

the mugnus archivesaskAnonymous
Do you have any good references on how to use bots like this? It's just! This is so cool so I'm very curious on how to work them

[ELIAS] Hello, Ratner. How are you feeling?
RATNER
Nothing. I - (pain) No, I, I, I’m fine.

ELIAS
Excellent.

Penny, was that a joke?
PENNY
[Laughingly] Yes.

MARTIN
Er, are you alright?

PENNY
Oh, I, I’m okay! Just, uh… uh, just one second.

Penny, what color are your eyes?
PENNY
[terrible Russian accent] They are blue.

can’t wait until the bot invents a fairchild oc
ELIAS
So, er… I assume you want me to just… take a fall?

TIM
Exactly.

SIMON
You know what, yeah. I kinda did.

ELIAS
I see.

Penny, are you a nonbinary girl? Do you use she/her pronouns?
PENNY
She… . Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Just, uh, just one more thing, then.

PENNY
Then I will kill you, Jon.

[PENNY’S CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR; CHAIR SCRAPES.]
ARCHIVIST
Not a question!

Penny is martin your best friend?
PENNY
Dude’s a pussy. Best friend. Ever.

MARTIN
[Flustered] What?


Ohh, it kind of seems like Martin has a grudge against penny. What happened?

Penny i love you
PENNY
I’m better than that.

ELIAS
Come on.

MARTIN
No. No, you’re not.


penny you're my new favorite

How old are you Penny? 18? 19?
PENNY
[Impatiently] Penny, I just want to ask how old you are.

ELIAS
She just turned 18.

who was responsible for adding person-sized vents to the magnus institute
ARCHIVIST
Not me, I’m afraid.

timelesslyjunePenny, how did you meet Martin?
PENNY
- Oh, it’s a good question. Um, well, I met him about two years ago, you know. That’s, that’s how you, sort of, meet someone new. Um, he’s a great guy, really, actually. Really talented, but you just, it’s easy to get on his nerves sometimes.

Penny! Do you have opinions on your Uncle Peter?
PENNY
You think he’s going to sleep with your mother and leave you emotionally scarred?

MARTIN
That’s not… why would you-


does penny know meaty?

penny, do you talk to peter lukas at all?
PENNY
Oh, um… yes, but you, you know. Kind of a weirdo.

Penny, what to do like to wear
PENNY
Oh… well, that’s the sort of thing you ask, but no, well, the sort of thing you know you should never, never, never…

You know, it’s not even your fault.

ELIAS
Yes. And I am sure it’s not yours.

PENNY
[Not entirely convincing] I don’t blame you.


do you plan on wiping emojis from its memory? i always have to with my bots because eventually they start exclusively using emojis

JONATHAN how do you feel about 😋😋😋😋😋😋😋😋
ARCHIVIST
[dryly] It’s – uh – how do you feel about all this? 👁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁👁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁👁😁😁😁😁😁👁😁😁 😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁 😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁◁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁😁

well, elias, since you’re the beholding bitch around here, what do YOU know about penny?
ELIAS
Uh… nothing much. Nothing good.


So Penny, if you’re uncomfortable with they/them, are there other sets of pronouns that you’re more comfortable with? She/her, he/him, xe/xir, etc.?

Penny I hope you know that I love you

Martin, are you hurt? What happened?

What do you mean you don't know? Peter, you surely know whether or not Penny's related to you, right?
PETER
No… no, that’s not what I meant.

PETER
Sorry? I don’t know that. Is she related?


penny lukas seems like an agent of chaos just of her own accord, not because of any entity or whatever, and i love her for it

penny!! how do you feel about the entities?
PENNY
[shaky] I don’t know.

MARTIN
[waves of pain] Oh, okay.

Oh, I just… er… I just thought that maybe you could tell me a story.

PENNY
Oh.
Would it help?

MARTIN
Er… Yeah.


Didn't mean to send that again sorry

Elias, are you babysitting Penny? Is that what this is?

statement of 😳 regarding what if we kissed 👀 and we were both boys 😋
[KNOCK ON DOOR]
[DOOR OPENS]
MARTIN
Hi, Jon.

ARCHIVIST
Huh.

MARTIN
Uh, sorry.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[CLICK]

arklietop &%\*€×?'? entities, number 👁👁👁👁👁 will suprise you!
👁👁👁👁👁👁’👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁(👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁 *(“ARE-YOU-SERIOUS-GASPING-HAIR?👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁👁 👁👁[“)

[HEAVY BREATHING & TURNED IT INTO A RUEFUL LAUGH.]
[CLICK]

Mod, I'm curious. What did you think when Meaty revealed that they microwave grilled cheese?
I thought, “Huh, that sounds nasty” and then I microwaved grilled cheese just to test and it was, in fact, nasty.



It was chewy and tasted like nothing. Would not recommend; Meaty has very bad taste.
penny why did you infiltrate the magnus archives? did your uncle put you up to this?

penny, it's okay, you can admit you're one of the anatomy students

mod thank u so much for ur hard work askjnasdj youve done such a good job putting this together and curating it for us and we all love it so much
Aww, thank you so much! It makes me so happy that people enjoy this blog!



It's very fun for me!Penny's wiki page is already live
Gd… Incredible… The SPEED you guys have…



gareccPenny, are you an avatar of the spiral?
PENNY
[Chuckles] Spelunky.

ARCHIVIST
[Heavy sigh] What?

PENNY
No!

maedhros-the-tall
Please let penny be a buried avatar I love the buried

IS PENNY A TEEN? A TEEN CAUSING TROUBLE?
ARCHIVIST
Yes. She’s one of the kids we caught breaking into the train graveyard up near Rotherham.

PENNY
So you know the legend of the Ghost Train?

[JON MAKES A NOISE OF PROTEST, BUT IS SHOVED DOWN.]
I’m told you can ride it anytime, though you’re not allowed to leave.

mod, do you take the time to make sure answers dont contradict canon or previous asks, or does the bot somehow know not to say something different about a character when asked a second time?
I try to make sure answers match up with canon and previous asks if I can, but also, often the bot only wants to give one answer for something. Like for example, with the best kisser asks, I had it generate ten answers and the answer to every one was the same, if not phrased a little differently or in a different context. So, I guess a little bit of both!



internationalfeel
penny are you an avatar of the spiral?

Penny how do i buy a dead rabbit
PENNY
John.

ARCHIVIST
…

Ooh! Oh! That hurts.

PENNY
[Laughs] Oh, right, sorry.


How did you meet Penny, Martin?

martin, what do you and penny lukas like to do together?
MARTIN
Oh… oh, it depends, I suppose, Penny’s sort of… ‘supporting’ me up here. Acting as a kind of buffer. Um, sometimes I’ll see Penny around here, uh, give some advice or, or just… give her a call.

timelesslyjune
bee–sun:


penny lukas 🥺🥺🥺

she belongs to @archivistbot 😔😔

It's her!!! You've drawn her so cute!bee--sunartLet's see, so Penny broke into the Archives via the ventilation system (which has to be pretty claustrophobic) to get some "fresh air" (in the basement of a 200-year-old building), and is supposedly from New Zealand (Down Under)... Penny, are you affiliated with the Buried, by any chance?
PENNY
Infiltrating them wasn’t my idea.

ARCHIVIST
Huh. Well, there you go.

martivistPENNY: Be gay, do crimes!
ELIAS
[Tired] Two is more than enough.

wishingroom
Penny, tell the truth. Are you a teenager?

Penny are you a teenager?
PENNY
What? I’m thirtysomething, and that’s a long way from being a tween.

ELIAS
No.

PENNY
What?

ELIAS
Just stop.


penny, do you serve the spiral?

Penny are you a teenager?

oh my god... penny is like, a tween, huh. is that why she keeps calling everyone old

Penny, are you an Avatar of anything or are you just human?
PENNY
[Defiantly] I’m avatar.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t believe you.

PENNY
[Defiantly] Fine.

plasmascreenzHow old are you Penny?
PENNY
[Emphasizing] Fifteen-twenty-something. Why are you so obsessed with numbers?

penny how long have you and martin been friends? penny can you tell me something nice about martin? thanks i love you
PENNY
I don’t know, he’s… he’s old. Kinda sweet, I think.

MARTIN
S-So why am I here? What do you want that’s so important you needed to tell me to my face?

PENNY
[heh] I just, I guess I just want to talk to you, y’know… have a real good talk.

shksprStatement of Martin Blackwood about his friend Penny.
MARTIN (STATEMENT)
So it’s another statement is there, this time from the archives. And, well, I’m not going to pretend that what I have here isn’t a bit -

ARCHIVIST
Where does the name “Peanut Butter” come from?

MARTIN
What an interesting question.

ARCHIVIST
Uh…

MARTIN
You know the answer to that?

ARCHIVIST
I… don’t know.

does ratner know penny??? meaty??? do they all hang out???
MARTIN
Oh, they’re not… yeah they’re friends.

Penny, what can you say about yourself? Maybe some hobbies, things that interest you, or at least what we can call you? Pronouns and that jazz.
PENNY
Oh! Um, I… er… I guess I, I guess I enjoy, er, I enjoy exploring.

I'm going to get a turtle and I'm thinking of naming it either Gerry or Delano! What do you think?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… yes… yes, I think…

MARTIN
Oh! Oh, you know Gerry or Delano?

ARCHIVIST
Gerry.

Those are both great names for a turtle! Congrats!Anonymoushell yeah penny is the kiwi icon we deserve
PENNY
[Beat] Dude…


You can ignore my height/hair/whatever i sent asks its old news. Still curious abt eye color tho

what do you look like penny?
PENNY
I don’t know. Small, pale, with long, straight, pointed black hair and a kind, square face.


R. Ratner can we. Can we have another poem, please? As a treat?

hey penny, do you have any cool collections?
PENNY
Oh! Oh, I, er… I think so. I, I mean, I don’t really have anything else in this sort of… um, this ‘curio’ thing, but…

Ratner, did the surname of your coworker who died happen to be Mann? You referred to someone named Mann in your poem. Was that him?
RATNER
Oh… yeah, that’s my good friend. He passed away a few years ago, now.


Penny, are you tall?

Penny, do you have long or short hair?

daisy what would you do if jonathan sims, your best friend forever, asked you to come over for a sleepover (the classic best friend activity)?
DAISY
I’d cry. He’s my best friend forever.


Penny, do you write poetry?

ok is it me or is penny definitely a spiral avatar

So you’re non-binary, Penny?

Penny? Do you use she/her pronouns?

What do you look like, Penny?
PENNY
[Chuckles] Good question.

MARTIN
[Angry] Oh, oh, no. Ooh! Ooh! There’s a goldfish in my hair!

PENNY
[Indignant] Oh! Yes! I apologise!

Hey Penny, what pronouns do you use?
PENNY
[immediately] Oh, I, I’m using, um, er, using a lot of the -

ARCHIVIST
Non-binary?

PENNY
[actually quite satisfied] I mean, I’m not, I’m not cis, okay. Yes.

PENNY
[sigh] Ok. Ok. I, I definitely do not use “they” or “them”.

ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.


how dare you make me feel so many feelings about the abot's oc >:( (this is about ratner)

Is Ratner already back at work or is he getting some much-needed sick leave?
GERARD
He’s definitely back at work, but he’s not working right. He’s just sitting there, doing whatever the hell it is he was doing before.


ratner what did that bastard man elias do to you

penny!! are you an avatar? do you have a last name?
PENNY
I don’t know, am I? I mean, I’m not, uh -

[MARTIN SCOFFS]
What?

[PENNY MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST]
PENNY
Just look at you -

PENNY
Look, look -

MARTIN
[Interrupting] Would you please drop that ridiculous voice?

PENNY
[Sigh] Okay.

[CLICK]

Is Penny your friend or sister, Martin?
MARTIN
She’s my… my, uh… I’m, I’m comfortable with Penny, um, and, and I’m, I’m, happy to keep her around, although… she’s kind of…


penny, are you an avatar of the hunt?

Is any of the archival staff playing some animal crossing in these trying times?
ELIAS
[elated] Play it, please.


penny-trexel vent solidarity

Penny did you climb in through the vents?
PENNY
Ah… ah yes.

PENNY (CONT’D)
Nice to see you, Jon.

Avant Lukas!AnonymousYou know, considering how... lonely and touch starved Ratner was, it makes sense why the Corruption chose him as an Avatar, doesn't it?
He just naturally gravitated towards that. The kind of thing that loves you in return.

HA.

[CLICK]

the magnus archivesa skOh... Yeah. :•(AnonymousPenny, do you serve any of The Fears?
PENNY
Oh, er… no, I, I, I’ve, I’ve got a lot of work to do.

Penny, are you an avatar? If so, which Entity do you serve?
PENNY
I serve the Eye.

ARCHIVIST
The Eye? Oh…

Why are you here?

PENNY
I serve the Flesh.

ARCHIVIST
The Flesh? But, I mean, what’s the name of that… thing?

PENNY
I serve the Stranger.

ARCHIVIST
The… The Stranger?

PENNY
The Eye.

ARCHIVIST
I… I don’t… The Eye! I… I understand, but I don’t… what’s it doing to me?

PENNY
The Buried.

ARCHIVIST
The… The Eye. S-So-S-Sorry, I-I don’t-t know-

PENNY
No, you don’t. That’s not what I’m talking about.

ARCHIVIST
What?


id like to sincerely thank every anon for teaching the bot how to use emojis and the word twink

Are you a teenager, Penny?

Penny are you small or are the vent shafts big?
PENNY
They’re big.

hi penny are YOU single
PENNY
Oh, um… Yes. Yes, I am.

Are you in any immediate personal danger?


Penny, are you a teenager?

Statement of Penny, regarding their introduction to the Magnus Institute and it's employees. Statement recorded direct from subject 21st March, 2020. Statement begins.
PENNY (STATEMENT)
Okay, I’m ready! Alright, so I go to the Magnus Institute, part of the, part of the actual machine room. I go to usher in the new boss. He’s, he’s quite an old guy. I mean, he’s been around for a long time. I mean, he’s older than most of the guys working there, and they’re old.

He looks like hell. And he just - keeps staring at me, like… like it wants a hug. Like, like a, a real big brother thing. Ew.

Penny, you are related to Peter Lukas??? Are you with the isolation???
PENNY
I… dunno. Not really. His name’s Peter Lukas, but he’s my uncle.


"My name is Penny Lukas, and I’m selling dead rabbits" is so iconic i would die for penny

Penny, do you serve a fear

penny, are you an avatar of the lonely? or the end? or even the desolation or hunt

So is Penny related to Peter Lukas?
MARTIN
Uh… Yes, I-I think so.

PETER
I… I mean, I don’t know that…


penny, do you know ratner? or meaty?

What does Penny look like?
MELANIE
Oh, I, er… I’ve seen her a few times in the hallway. She’s, um… she’s a few years younger than me.

Penny, what is your last name? Unless you already have one and I missed it
PENNY
My name is Penny Lukas, and I’m selling dead rabbits.

ARCHIVIST
I… Okay, okay, are you… selling them?

PENNY
Not directly, though if you want to make a donation.

ARCHIVIST
Right.


penmy doesnt give a fuck j love her

penny’s just vibing... icon

I've only known Penny for thirty minutes but I already love her completely and totally would die for her.
ARCHIVIST
S-So, what, this means she’s evil?

hello penny! what's your vibe?
PENNY
It’s… it’s kind of… Whatever?

MARTIN
Oh! Oh, okay.

PENNY
Yeah. I mean, you know, just, just letting it all out.


Hey Penny! What pronouns do you use?

you broke into the institute, penny? why?
PENNY
[Laughs] I just, well, wanted some fresh air, you know?

MARTIN
I don’t know.

PENNY
Hm.

timelesslyjune
Penny, are you an avatar of any sorts?

Penny, what is your gender?
PENNY
[noncommittal] Oh. Um… I, I guess I am.

MARTIN
Oh. Uh…

PENNY
I am.

MARTIN
I don’t, er…

[UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]

Penny, do you work for the archives or are you just visiting?
PENNY
Neither, I’m afraid. I’m just here to do my own thing.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

PENNY
I mean, I guess you work here, but a lot of the decisions here are pretty weird.

ARCHIVIST
[Very carefully] I-I-I don’t control what’s happening.

PENNY
[Fine] So what, it’s creepy as hell!

ARCHIVIST
I just… er…


How is the mod doing tonight?

pebby??
MARTIN
[Softly] Uh… no.

Jon! Urgent! What the fuck is a gender?!
ARCHIVIST
I…

[FIRE ALARM CAN BE HEARD]

Fair resonse frankly
Penny is my mum's name... mum, have you infiltrated the Magnus archives??

Jon! Urgent! What the fuck is a gender?!
ARCHIVIST
I…

[FIRE ALARM CAN BE HEARD]

atiredpanhey jon, give us your thoughts about your grandmother. there’s obviously lingering tension despite attending to proclaim otherwise
ARCHIVIST
My grandmother is……] my grandmother. What?

hey jude perry, what are your thoughts about all of the lady attracted gaylords fighting between knowing you are a devastating blight upon this earth versus pretty lady.... muscle.... t-tattoo........
JUDE
[Chuckles] I don’t know. I love it.

ARCHIVIST
Hmph.

JUDE
All I can say is - it terrifies me.

[JON MAKES A SMUG LITTLE SOUND.]

Hey, Martin, who's Penny? She seems nice!
MARTIN
Uh… she’s my friend.


DAISY
I bet he is.

Who's a twink?
MARTIN
Uh, uh - Jon…

Ratner, did Elias hurt you?
RATNER
Oh, yes. He, uh… he thought I was watching him, and so he -


do you work at the institute, penny?

Hey anyone got any squid facts
BASIRA
What facts?

ARCHIVIST
Well, if you’re sure.

BASIRA
I’m a squid addict.

ARCHIVIST
Sorry?

Gd me too BasiraAnonymousWho is Penny?
MARTIN
Penny…


Hey Penny! Do you work at the Magnus Institute?

Hello Penny! What is your surname?

Is this the first time Penny has shown up? :0
I mean I’ve seen her before because like there’s a lot of stuff that doesn’t get posted, but yes. She’s never appeared in an actual post before.


Hey! Ratner! Why uh, what caused that seizure? Are you alright?
RATNER
Oh, well, it was, um… just a bit of… er… stress. I’m, I’m getting better, but I’m… well, I’m scared out of my mind, and, and I thought that, well, the medical people, they’re not as hard as they seem, but they still gave me some… some really strong ANALGESICS.

Oh, hello, Penny. Where did you come from?
PENNY
New Zealand.

penny, who are you and how did you get in
PENNY
Oh, well, the, uh - the y’know, the sort of thing they do with the ventilation in the buildings, it becomes, it becomes quite easy, er -

ARCHIVIST
Excuse me!


Hello! Who is Penny? Is she a legitimate side character or statement giver I’m forgetting, or is it another one of the bot’s OCs?

Martin, Jon, Tim, you *need* to keep Elias away from Ratner.
DAISY
Done.

hey tim who’s a better kisser jon martin or ratner
TIM
[exasperated] Jon?

MARTIN
Hey, I - I know.

TIM
I just thought someone would have told you by now.

Hey Martin, aren’t you tired of being nice? Don’t you just wanna go apeshit?
MARTIN
(tearful) Yeah…

PETER
Martin. This isn’t fair.

MARTIN
(echoing again) Look, if you’re gonna complain about anything, let me know. I’d love to hear it.

morningisnotalrightTell Nikola I love her!
(heh) Okay. So, uh, you can kiss her goodbye, or…

(brief noise) Nah. Nah, it was just - a bag. Nah, it’s just a twink.

[HE COLLAPSES.]
[CLICK]

Statement of John Amherst, regarding a baffling romantic encounter. Statement recorded direct from subject 6th September, 1992. Statement begins.
STATEMENT GIVER (STATEMENT)
Well, it’s been a hard couple of weeks. (laugh) I’m, I’m really not feeling well. I’m, I’m sure it’s because of - you know, this sort of thing. The feeling that something’s not right. Like it’s not a dream, or, or it’s not me. It just… there’s something not right about it. Like my legs are weak, and I’m falling apart. And I can’t… I just can’t move. I can’t, I can’t get out of bed, I keep passing out in front of everyone, and then I wake up in the night, and I see the ants. And I feel them move along the floor, along the corridor, make their slow, circuitous journey towards me.

Whatever it is, it feels like they’re going to move their way along the wall, until they reach the other end, and then they are gone. I am trapped. And I hate this. If there was, if there was a door, something, anything, then I could get out of there. But there is nothing, and I just want to stay here. I don’t want to leave. And if this is the price I have to pay, then so be it.

Tim is gonna come for Elias' fuckin ass next time he sees him. Better watch out, bastard man!
[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
…right.

will martin kiss me
MARTIN
Maybe.

PENNY
Wow.

PENNY
Thanks for the tea, Martin.

MARTIN
It’s not a cup of tea!

PENNY
Right, right. Sorry.

MARTIN
It’s not even my cup.

PENNY
No, it is.

MARTIN
I don’t suppose you know how to pour it?

PENNY
Why wouldn’t you? It’s not even a mug!

MARTIN
It’s not even a tea!

PENNY
No, I don’t think it is.

would LOVE to know what on earth is happening hereAnonymousDo the doctors know why Ratner has a seizure?
ELIAS
– that’s really quite simple, really. He was sick. They confirmed it was a simple seizure, no permanent damage done to his brain.

hey gerry, hows it being goth in this day and age?
GERARD
Ah, yes. Yes, well, that’s the problem with dressing for a funeral: you try to look like you’re feeling it, but deep down you know it’s just cobwebs.

elias... why dont you give ratner some brain thoughts like you do
ELIAS
You know, thinking about it, the amount of pain and loss and legitimate devastation, I’ve got plenty to work with.

ratner PLEASE start caring about yourself... we love you
RATNER
[overlapping] [sigh]

ARCHIVIST
Relax.

RATNER
Look, Jon, I’m not sure if this is really necessary.

ARCHIVIST
It is.

RATNER
And I don’t want to get in the way of your investigations.

Elias, you know you told me you would awnser my questions. Did you hurt Ratner?
ELIAS
Oh, yes.


i’ve always interpreted the static the same way as the last anon, but with the addition of it being- well, our fault, specifically. the static often intensifies or makes trouble when people ask about the bot, cause major events that are out of character or noncanon, or ask the bot questions about itself. the Static is this bot, this distillation of all the tma characters and entities, struggling to make its way into our reality, and make itself known to us. it’s born of our interference with tma

I'd like to imagine the canon characters looking at these asks and thinking we're all freaks (that's why they sigh so much)
And we are.

sfdcvb probably!Anonymousjon have you destroyed your spiderweb design lighter yet? it doesn't seem wise to keep that on hand
ARCHIVIST
It’s not - it’s not a big deal, I mean -

hey elias how many HR violations do you commit in a single day, on average

ELIAS
…

-

-

18.

ARCHIVIST
…

That’s not even the half of it, though.

ELIAS
It’s hard to put into a simple figure, ‘cause there are so many variables that affect how much something is “reportedly” a “bad job”.

is Basira becoming an avatar of the Eye? that would be really sexy of her..
ARCHIVIST
She hasn’t? -

BASIRA
Oh, yeah. She’s pretty much the perfect vessel for it.

Get some rest, Ratner.
RATNER
There’s no such thing as rest.

What is Malcolm a professor of? Something to do with the ancient attifacts he’s studying?
BASIRA
[heh] Well, that’s the question. I’ve been doing a lot of researching, and, well, the Anthropology Department at the University of Edinburgh.

nikola rights?
ARCHIVIST
You think she’s going to sleep over there?

BASIRA
I hope so. Make her a cup of tea.

ARCHIVIST
Okay.

[CLICK]

Who! The fuck! Is Ratner!
Ratner is one of the characters created by Archivistbot and the people who send in asks. You can read about him on our wiki. Also, there’s now a link to the wiki at the top of the blog. :•)

Is Elias a fan of The Mechanisms?
ELIAS
Bad form.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - what?

I'm loving how everyone's taking this chance to try and get Tim and Ratner together.
MARTIN
You don’t think they’re going to be able to get onboard with that?

ELIAS
Oh… No. I don’t think they’ll be able to get onboard with anything even remotely like that.

dappermusician-main
Which side is responsible for this whole corona mess?!

Don't worry Ratner, I'm sure if you ask Tim will come lend a hand.
ARCHIVIST
I’ll see if I can hunt down Tim.

RATNER
Sure.

[CLICK]

Uh, can I hug Micheal? He seems fun to hug and my day hasn't been the best.
MICHAEL
Sure.

…

How are the pancakes?

MARTIN
Oh, I’m, I’m fine. I’m, I’m, um, I’m feeling better, uh, but -

MICHAEL
What?

MARTIN
Yeah - yeah, the pancakes are… bad.

MICHAEL
Oh.

skidaddle skidoodle
and it just skidded to a stop on the tarmac beneath the bridge.

Tim have you checked on Ratner? We’re all worried about him
TIM
…

Yeah, he’s not okay.

MARTIN
Oh…

Sure.

…

He’s been in the hospital, as you know, since…

He’s been… well, he’s been effective, but he’s prone to breakdowns.

Shouldn't Ratner go see a doctor? Or at least be staying home to recover? Why the hell is he still here?!
Don’t you hate doctors?

Ratner, it doesn’t matter if you’re a good employee or not. We’re worried about you and your well-being. Your worth isn’t measured by your productivity.
RATNER
Well, that’s not really true, is it?

GERARD
It is true!

Elias, did you do this to Ratner?!
ELIAS
Ratner?

ELIAS
You know, that’s hardly your business.

what is notthem up to these days?
BASIRA
What?

ARCHIVIST
The Unknowing.

BASIRA
No, no…

ARCHIVIST
Yeah, guess they were part of The Stranger, right?

BASIRA
No shit.

hey welcome to applebee’s, would you like apples or bees?
ARCHIVIST
No, I, I just wanted some water then.

Hey, Ratner? How are you feeling? Can I get you anything? You don't look too well.
RATNER
(light, pointed) Oh… No, I’m not exactly sure. I’m… I’m kinda scared.

RATNER
(soft) Nothing. I, I just… I just want to rest.

Oh, so Malcom is an academic?
ARCHIVIST
Do you know anything about him?

MARTIN
Not really.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! OK, so he’s, he’s a professor? What does that mean?

MARTIN
Oh! Well, he’s lecturing, like, at the Institute.

Tim, can you go take care of Ratner? He had a really rough night, he's hurt, he had a seizure, and Elias messed him up.
TIM
I don’t know. But he needs some rest.

Can I smooch,,,,Michael on the forehead? Pls,,,?
MICHAEL
Oh, don’t worry, it’s not for you.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

MICHAEL
It’s for me.

I think Tim might be acting happier because he's been thinking of a certain Ratner......
MARTIN
What?

MARTIN
Yeah, well, I guess that’s… that’s pretty weird.

Ratner, why did you have a seizure? I'm worried about you.
RATNER
Oh… Oh, okay. Sorry. Yeah, it’s, it’s a bit of a, it’s a bit of history. So. Um. So. Let me, let me explain something quickly. Um, I was, I’m a good employee. Yes, I am, a good employee.

IT'S THE YEAR OF THE RAT, BABEY!
BASIRA
For real?

ELIAS
Yes.

BASIRA
So, like - No, like a rat.

ELIAS
A small animal, certainly.

Look out?
MARTIN
Oh, er… no, sorry, just, just no, I, I think…

ARCHIVIST
Oh. woah, woah… woah!

MARTIN
Well, go get some help.

Do the Archives have a rat infestation or something? I swear I saw at least three in Artefact Storage today alone.
ARCHIVIST
Oh… Oh, sorry. I didn’t - I didn’t realize you were a scientist.

MELANIE
Are you all about rat control?

I hate to say it Ratner, but Elias is right. That's not at *all* reassuring.
RATNER
No?

MARTIN
No.

Ratner, if you had a seizure and you're not epileptic you should probably go see a doctor.
RATNER
……

Yeah.

Jon, what’s up with the Mechanisms? Are they a real life band of immortal space pirates or is that your high school band, and if they are a band of immortal space pirates, can I please talk to them?
ELIAS (JONAH)
Ah, Jon. A real life band.

[JON MAKES A NOISE OF PROTEST, BUT IS SHOVED DOWN. ELIAS MAKES A NOISE OF CONSIDERATION.]
ELIAS (CONT’D)
Right, well played.

[CLICK]

I don’t know, did a clown clean my house last night??
ARCHIVIST
Ah, y-yes.

I believe you.

LOOK OUT!

[CLICK]

hey melanie.... how does it feel being the coolest bitch alive??????
MELANIE
Oh, you know, it does feel quite nice, doesn’t it?

hey ratner... another rat disaster in the archives would be bad.... the archives are weak to the corruption remember the wormpocalypse mahtin??
MARTIN
Yeah.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Ah, thanks.

Er… are you alright?

RATNER
Don’t push yourself too hard, Martin.

MARTIN
Oh… no. Er… no, okay.

BRING IN THE CLOWNS
MARTIN
Clowns don’t cry. Not like I know anymore.

TIM
So, what, this is -

MARTIN
Clowns don’t cry. And I’m not crying!

TIM
[Laughingly] Maybe you could use a kiss.

MARTIN
Uh… oooh… oooh… What?

Ratner, many people are epileptic. Its okay if you are, no one is mad. Are you epileptic?
RATNER
Ah… No.

ELIAS
That’s… not as reassuring as you think it is.

[SOUND OF BANDAGES BEING WRAPPED] are you feeling any better, Ratner?
RATNER
Yes, thank you.

Hey Tim? Just, ah- just so you know. Ratner was lying about being okay. He someone gave him a cuncussion and he had a seizure.
TIM
So that’s it, isn’t it.

MARTIN
I mean, we can’t be sure…

TIM
…But it happened.

MARTIN
Oh.

TIM
So, my bet is on Elias.

MARTIN
Yeah.

💋. for jane
Did your clown really clean your house last night?

Ratner, are you epileptic?
RATNER
Is… no, no, it’s… it’s just… I’m having trouble. I’m fine, though. I’m, I’m, I’m fine. But it’s making me feel weird. Oh, this is weird. This is making me feel weird. I’m really alright, though. I’m, I’m really alright.

magnus archivesaskAnonymousTim, is there anyone you like at the Institute?
TIM
Oh… Oh, er… No, I don’t think so. I think he’s, uh… Yeah, he’s okay, he’s nice and all.

guilty-crunchRatner, first appearance: Yes. Im getting all the rats. Grab a chair old man. Ratner, now: i am afraid. Ratner really is the epitome of "Look at it! You ruined a perfectly good [blank] it has anxiety!" Or whatever the quote is
I’m not really sure how or why it happened but he has definitely evolved from a goofy if not a little frightening avatar to pretty much just a guy who likes rats which is fun.



everyone here loves ratner more than the tma characters
GERTRUDE
Well, there you go.

ERIC
…Yes.

archivist, 👀 I love that you have learned about emoji. you're hilarious 😂 and I am dead 💀. also you should send ❤️🧡💛💚💙💜 to Martin, he'd appreciate it. 🏳️‍🌈
ARCHIVIST
Right. Okay, um. So. How do I… [Sigh]

[LONG SIGH]


[bandages up ratner] be more careful!!
RATNER
Oh… alright..

What are you doing?

scouring
ratner please show us the poetry? pretty please?

Y'AI 'NG'NGAH, YOG-SOTHOTH H'EE-L'GEB F'AI THRODOG UAAAH  OGTHROD AI'F GEB'L-EE'H YOG-SOTHOTH 'NGAH'NG AI'Y ZHRO 

alan we love you! shame about all that blood
RATNER
Oh, I’m sorry.


Ratner are you the giant rat that makes all of the rules?
RATNER
I have a few. better ones coming your way.

ARCHIVIST
Controversial, but real.


[JON BEHOLDS RATNERS INNER DIALOGUE]

Ratner just rest, okay? You're really hurt. You probably have a concussion. [SOUND OF RATNER BEING TUCKED IN]
RATNER
Wait. What?

ARCHIVIST
Yes. Yes, I was just going to have a look at you, if you don’t mind.

RATNER
Oh…

Huh. Don't like that.AnonymousTim, do you think Martin is better at poetry or at kissing?
TIM
Oh, it’s hard to say. His work is already… well, let’s just say it’s not poetry.

Who were you calling, Ratner?
RATNER
Oh… It’s, uh… It’s a bit late, actually. I, I guess I should just… leave?

Ratner, what happened? Why are you dizzy? You need to lay down. Did someone hurt you?
RATNER
[Very gently] I, I’m fine.

RATNER
Ah, uh, no, well, not exactly. Well, it was, it was a bit of a shock, really. I mean, you know, I’ve, I’ve had a few drinks, y’know, and I’ve definitely had a few drinks, uh, I’ve definitely had a seizure.

Hey, Tim, is Ratner alright? He looked a bit messed up.
TIM
[Cool] Alright, I’ll get him some water, okay?

TIM
…

Hey.

RATNER
Hi, Tim.

TIM
Are you okay?

RATNER
Yeah, I’m okay…


Well. He won’t answer. Archive crew? What does Ratner look like?

(For art purposes) straight from the source— Ratner, what do you look like?
RATNER
Oh, I, er… Well, I, I’m, I’m Ratner, that’s what they call me.

MARTIN
Like, like a rat?

RATNER
Hell no.

welllllhelllllwhats going on? top ten entities ready to attack the archives and some lucky members within it
the, er… [papers rustling] the Library of Er… Librarians.

It’s the [paper rustling] worms.

Ratner, why won't you let me love you!?
RATNER
[Worried] Oh, am I supposed to trust you?

maedhros-the-tallHey Ratner? What did you do on your phone that made them take it?
RATNER
Oh, I, er… I just, just had a, a few calls.


Statement of Alan Ratner regarding the corruption.

Ratner? Is- are you alright? You look like you're going to fall over! You should lay down- is that blood? Do you have a black eye? What happened?
RATNER
Oh, ah- yes, sorry, no, I’m fine. Just had a bit too much to drink, I got, well, I think. I’m fine.

GERARD
Are you okay?

RATNER
Yeah! Um, no, I’m… I’m just… feeling kind of… dizzy.

Why did they take your phone Ratner?
RATNER
What? Why wouldn’t they?

MARTIN
Are you okay?

RATNER
Oh… No, no, I’ve just… [Nervous laugh]

MARTIN
Right, right.

Jon- are you alright? Is that blood?
ARCHIVIST
Oh, er… No, it’s, it’s nothing, just… just a few bruises. I’m fine.

Hey Ratner, maybe you should sit down, take a nap or something.
RATNER
Oh, just… What?

MARTIN
Yeah, well, I was just, just trying to… Get you some rest.

RATNER
I’m not getting my phone back, am I?

Hi daisy I love you
DAISY
It’s. It’s not. Take your time.

DAISY
It’s been a hard few months, well, thank you for caring.

morningisnotalrighttalk to him.
ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

GERARD
He’s the only one who understands. You’re the only ones who can stop it.

Hey, Ratner are you alright? You look pale. You should sit down.
RATNER
What? No-o-o-o. I’ve been out of it for a while.

GERARD
You look like you’re about to fall over.

RATNER
NO, No I -


Ratner, sweetheart, why are you so anxious about connection to people? Who hurt you?
RATNER
[Awkwardly] I don’t know, that’s… I guess that’s everything.

ARCHIVIST
What?

RATNER
When I was younger, I hurt a lot of people. I hurt a lot of people. And… that’s why I’m always… trying to help.

I’m not saying it’s easy to stop.

the magnus archivesa skAnonymousRatner will you PLEASE marry me?
RATNER
Uh… yes?
Are you serious?

RATNER
[Long laugh] Oh, were you just going to kill me?

daisy can i have little a kiss. as a treat
DAISY
A kiss? From a monster?

can we get some wlw in this trying time?
BASIRA
Sure, why not?

Martin, would you please read a poem to Jon for me? Thank you.
MARTIN
Sure. I’ll… uh… out. Uh…

[LAUGH]
Oh, it’s alright. It’s, um… it’s not as hard as all that.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST
It’s hard, though, isn’t it?

MARTIN
Uh, yeah. Yeah, it’s-

MARTIN
[Sigh] It’s hard to find words to describe just…
Ah… ah… it’s, uh… it’s alright. It’s, uh… it’s alright.

[HE READS.]

“And still I am alone,

I know the deep sadness of being

Soothing the mind with the dregs

Of autumn and winter,

Damp through with the murk

Of that vast, unknowing ocean;

Where are you now?

You were here, so soon after the ship left,

We were on our way to the South Pacific,

And all at once the doom of the ship was at my command.

Turning west, taking our intended course,

We meet the vanguard of the Japanese fleet,

They have no intention of letting us sail again,

You know the deep rumble of a battle,

The clash of nature as you can barely conceive;

The scream of an animal, the sickening, punishing void of space.

You know the song of a ship, long, deep, and loud;

Then the call of an endless, far-frozen land.

poet lariatMartin's inaccurate but gay war poetry timeAnonymousOntario? Is there an Ontario in the UK?
MARTIN
Uh… No, I don’t think so.

(fills Elias's office with those origami frogs that little kids make in Hebrew School for Passover. just like, a half a meter deep in paper frogs.)
ELIAS
Presents?

MARTIN
Oh! Yes.

ELIAS
Ah, that makes sense.

love those little guysAnonymous(throws a frog into the archives)
ERIC
What? Why would I want to replace my head with a frog?

GERTRUDE
Well, technically, I didn’t have one when I made the incision, but you know how it is with these things.

ERIC
Look, you didn’t ask me, I’m sure.

GERTRUDE
I didn’t ask.

Ratner you and Tim better kiss each other or so help me god I will make it happen in a fan fiction myself!
RATNER
[Softly] What?

[Deep breath] What, are you gonna commit to kissing me?

Martin hi I love you & what’s your advice on getting thru self-isolation / quarantining?
MARTIN
[exasperated] Well, I’m apparently quite the authority on that subject, so I’d say don’t be alarmed.

MARTIN
[light laugh] Survival tips, from Hell.

ARCHIVIST
Of the ECDC?

MARTIN
[Laugh] Of course.

the archives staff should unionize
Make sure the people working for the Ontario Archives are also union members. If not, it’s going to get ugly fast.

ARCHIVIST
(sigh) Mm. Yes, I, uh… I think that’s probably for the best.

Statement of [softly] regarding an unusual density of bees. Recorded direct from subject, 20th April, 2020. Statement begins.
TIM (STATEMENT)
You’ve got to understand, I have so much to keep track of, so… I, I started counting the seconds, because I’m running out of petrol, and, and I just couldn’t stand the sound of that awful grinding, and… and the empty hive.

I’m not a beekeeper, you know. No, I am not one of those people who dedicate their life to the struggle against the insect hordes, the swarm, the nothing that waits for the next step. I am one of those people who have a, a duty, an obligation to watch out for, a, a warning that comes only when the overseer is nearby. There are, there are very few cases where a swarm, or a swarm of insects, is actually dangerous.

I was watching that grove of trees, though, as it was late spring and the chill had begun to hit.

I ran up to the grove of trees, and, and I was surprised to see that, as I approached, the whole tree seemed to be covered in buzzing insects.

The grove of trees was entirely composed of them, and each hive was surrounded by a small enclosure of trees, each hive a distinct tree, its own small enclosure. There was no smell of honey. The tree hollows were lined with dirt and slick with insect faeces, and could be clearly seen under the most intense of sunlight.

Glaring down through the trees I saw the researchers entering one of the hollows.

will Martin be ok in s5?
ARCHIVIST
I’m… I’m not sure yet.

I’m going to make sure he’s getting some rest, okay?

MARTIN
Sure, sure.

[CLICK]

Jon, why do you love Martin?
ARCHIVIST
Oh… well, I, I guess I like him because he’s… he’s consistent. He looks after others, but not himself. He knows what’s going on, and he still seems to trust everyone.

How can we keep hoping?
DAISY
Well, we can’t just sit here moping.

ARCHIVIST
(soft) Yeah.

trans righs
ELIAS
And now?

ARCHIVIST
I call you an ambulance.

Concept: Jon with fangs. Yay or Nay? ~Miyo
ARCHIVIST
[LOW IRRITATED GROAN]
Nay.

Elias, do you bite?
ELIAS
Only slightly.

atiredpanwhen you work for elias "brutal pipe murder" bouchard, anything goes! tim and martin hook up in the archives all the time and who's gonna stop them? jon? i have to laugh
ARCHIVIST
Well, it’s not as bad as some of y’know. I mean…

MARTIN
Ha! You’re sure you don’t know anything?

ARCHIVIST
I don’t know… I don’t… I have no idea.

shksprMartin, do you think it makes sense for any of you to care about maintaining a professional work environment here at the end of the world, and either way, may I hug you?
MARTIN
Uh…

[Hugs]

Er… Well, it’s not… y’know. I mean, I don’t know, it’s not even my department.

Jon, what is The Static?
[THE STATIC GROWS HIGH. The Archivist waits, It looks like he’s asleep.]

Time is of the essence, Jon.

[CLICK]

hey, is malcom part of the buried?
MARTIN
Not really.

ARCHIVIST
Oh! Uh… no, but he’s… he’s been studying ancient artifacts, I guess.

mrvantashey jon is the admiral a good boy?
ARCHIVIST
[immediately smitten] Oh – yes.

Ratner, are you an avatar of the corruption?
RATNER
Oh, I’m… Yes.

Hey, ratner? If you ever need someone in your corner, know i'm here.
RATNER
Oh… thank you, but I don’t think so.

Ratner, i do care what happened. It's clearly hurting you, and I care about you alot. What happened at the hospital? I'm worried about you
RATNER
Oh - I just, ha - I just remember -

RATNER
Well… (soft) I want to help, I -

RATNER
I just remember -

RATNER
(big inhale) I want to help. I just - I don’t want to be a burden.

wait. has ratner ever said fuck?
MARTIN
Uh - no. But he’s nice.

Nope!AnonymousMichael, what is your opinion on mobius strips?
MICHAEL
Can’t stand those little worms.

criticaltien[camera pans to the admiral] i want to see my little boy... i want to see my little boy...
[he falls asleep on the table]

ratner have you ever met any other corruption avatars? like jane prentiss?
RATNER
Uh… no. Well, maybe.

MARTIN
Well, I’m sorry.

worms loose in the archives what crimes will they commit
ARCHIVIST
[Bitter laugh] I don’t know…

ARTHUR
And, so, your crime?


Alan, love, who died?

Who did it kill, Ratner?
RATNER
He died. About two months after, uh…

How many people died at that Wildlife Hospital, Ratner?
RATNER
I’m sure you don’t know how many.

I’m sure you don’t know what happened.

I’m sure you don’t care.

If David Atayah keeps coming by the Institute, how has Meaty avoided him? Does he hide in a closet? Or Artefact Storage? *is* Meaty avoiding him at all?
ARCHIVIST
[Hastily] Not well, I’m afraid.

HELEN
Oh. Hm.

Continuation of your statement, Ratner.
RATNER
Oh, you know, just thought that was a bit of a waste of your time.

Sorry! I meant to ask why Peter is flying Elias out to Washington DC
PETER
What? No! I’m flying him out to DC, to meet with some… some sort of paranormal investigator, because… he’s having some problems?

MARTIN
Oh! I just… I just thought that was sort of lame.

ratner is the rat that makes all of the rules
RATNER
[chuckles] I don’t know, maybe.

ratner why are you so mean to yourself i want to kiss you on the forehead :(
RATNER
Uh… no. I… suppose that’s fair.

scouringRatner, what would you do if Tim kissed you?
RATNER
I’d tell him to stay the hell away from me.

MARTIN
…

There’s a lot of things you could do!

Ratner please,,, self care,,, you are not worthless piece of shit... You are a good, kind person who just as much as anyone in the archives is a victim of higher powers. You are good
RATNER
(pain) Oh…

GERARD
Just like Mothman.

RATNER
(tearful) Right…

(sounds of aggressive rot)
The air is

Morbid

but not oppressive

It wasn’t your fault, Ratner. You didn’t know what it was.
RATNER
Well, I didn’t know what it was, but it still killed him.

Tim, did you hear that Ratner thinks you're really strong and smart?
TIM
What?

MARTIN
Yeah, yeah.

TIM
Why?

MARTIN
Oh, well, I mean, it’s not the sort of thing he normally does.

TIM
Well, he’s not wrong.

Tim, have you ever tried to like... flirt with Ratner? If so, how did it go?
TIM
Well, I gave him a heart attack!

MARTIN
Oh sure.


Elias, why are you flying Peter out to Washington DC?

Peter, how many times have you divorced Elias?
PETER
[disbelievingly] Oh, there have been several occasions.

MARTIN
Right, yes.

PETER
As a matter of fact, if you’ll excuse me, I would like to fly him out to Washington DC for a couple of hours.

MARTIN
I’ll see you later.


letpapersleep:


@pyjamac ratner……………………… i like him

Love.....Daisy, I would die for you.
ARCHIVIST
I would also die for you.

DAISY
(inhale) I’d be in a lot of pain if that was the case.

David Atayah, are you goth?
DAVID
No, I am not.

DAISY
You look like a… a creep.

are melanie and helen friends?
MELANIE
Oh! Er, yeah, yeah.

plasmascreenzRatner, do you have a crush on Tim?
RATNER
Oh… Um, I, I’m, I’m friends with him…


The Tik Tok audio that goes, “You can tell your boyfriend that if he’s scared of vegetarians, I’m fucking beef” fits Meaty so well.

ARCHIVIST Tell me your story, Ratner.
RATNER (STATEMENT)
Alright. So. So I’m glad you’re here, Jon, I just- (sigh) I just want to, uh… probably make a statement or two, uh, about, some things I’ve learned, things I’ve done. Like, I’m, I’m sorry that I’m, that I’m, that I’m a (sigh) worthless piece of shit.

Well, my story is not all that complicated. It’s not even complicated. Why is it that I’m always at a loss to explain? Why do you think I’m so reluctant to say anything, even if it might help someone.

It wasn’t my fault. God, no. I don’t think I would have made such a decision if I thought that I could control it. But it’s true, and it’s terrible. I’m sorry.

I kept it. It never used to scare me, but it did seem to lure me in. At first, it was just a couple of rats, but they had already taken over most of the space, and it just looked like more were coming. It didn’t scare me, not really.

One of the problem rats, had broken free and gone into the adjoining cage. More rats. It was only when I saw the bloody table that it… started to scare me.

The other cages were empty. I believe about half of them were already locked that night, and the others I heard that groan of pain. I backed away, and the cage was suddenly empty. I went towards the door, but as I did so, I heard the sound of… something being dragged along the floor.

I went to investigate, but there was no one there. All the cages were still in their corners, and there were all the rats still in there. It must have been a human being, though.

I was still trying to figure out what was going on, when I heard the scream.

Hey, Ratner, do you do field work or no?
RATNER
Huh? Huh. No, er… probably not. Fat chance.

All these boys pining over each other is gonna kill Basira, I swear.
BASIRA
And I’d better get used to the kisses.

I love you, Alan Ratner. I hope you know that for all your days
RATNER
Know nothing?

ARCHIVIST
[Exhales] What a delightful thought.

Ratner, you don't have to write a poem if you don't want to. (but we would love hear it if you do.)
RATNER
Oh… thank you, but I don’t have anything to deliver.

ARCHIVIST
I assume you don’t mind waiting?

RATNER
(desperately) Oh, no.

ARCHIVIST
Sit. Down.

RATNER
I’m going to sit down.

[THE ARCHIVIST TALKS.]
ARCHIVIST
Tell me your story, preferably.

RATNER
You’ll like this.

ARCHIVIST
Okay.

[CLICK]

maedhros-the-tallRatner, what do you think of Tim?
RATNER
Oh…

Yeah, I think… he’s… really strong, and… he’s really smart, though. I like that, I mean that’s a really good sign, actually.

hey ratner, what's your opinion on Meaty?
RATNER
[frantically] Oh, I, er… no, I, I don’t know. I don’t, er…

RATNER
Hm.

RATNER
Meaty?

RATNER
Oh! Yes.

RATNER
Oh, uh, yeah, actually, y’know, today’s a holiday in France, so, let’s, let’s go have a few drinks and talk about the Olympics.

Ratner, how tall are you?
RATNER
I don’t know. I don’t know, like… five foot eight?

ARCHIVIST
Well, that’s… that’s big.

RATNER
I don’t know it is.

Martin, Basira, do you think Ratner and Tim would be cute together?
MARTIN
…

No.

BASIRA
Oh. Oh, yes. Definitely not.

Basira can you hug Alan Ratner for me?
BASIRA
Oh. Er. Yeah.

Er.

MARTIN
Right.

Is he alright?

BASIRA
Hm? Oh, he, he’s okay.

who the fuck is ratner
This bot does things. Fun things.
https://archivistbot.fandom.com/wiki/Alan_Ratner



who the fuck is ratner
[RATNER WHEEZE-LAUGHS ONCE]
RATNER
Who the hell is Ratner?

Ratner, have you noticed anything odd with Tim lately?
RATNER
Oh… ah… no, nothing.

RATNER
I mean, he’s been keeping me company, but it’s just that he’s missed a few of us.

Martin I am sorry to hear you are having a rough time. *Beatboxes gently* I hope your day improves, you deserve the best.
ARCHIVIST
My priority is you, Martin.

MARTIN
[Sigh] Okay…

ARCHIVIST
Anything you want, please!

[DOOR CLOSES]
MARTIN
[Chuckles] Fine…

Alan Ratner accept my affection
RATNER
[chuckling slightly] That’s quite nice, isn’t it?

BASIRA
It is.

Ratner, you are very handsome!
RATNER
Dear me.

RATNER
So – so what do you want?

Ratner, you are very handsome, and I am very proud of you.
RATNER
(light, pointed) Oh – no, no. I’m not really sure I would say that.

And surely ye’ll be your pint-stoup! and surely I’ll be mine! And we’ll tak' a cup o’ kindness yet, for auld lang syne
[FOOTSTEPS. MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
(overlapping) Oh - okay, okay, so it’s - it’s actually just a cup o tea.

Mr. Sandman build me a sand! doo doo doo doo~ Make him the greatest
madman alive!

[HEAVY, UNEVEN FOOTSTEPS. A DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
ARCHIVIST
Hello?

Ratner, you are not an idiot. And you are not ugly.
RATNER
Well, it’s neither here nor there.


For auld lang syne, my jo, for auld lang syne, we’ll tak‘ a cup o’ kindness yet, for auld lang syne.

Eric i love you
ERIC
(overlapping) Yes, well (sigh) Can you not just make fun of me?

*breakdances sadly* What's wrong Martin?
MARTIN
Oh, nothing, just… just thinking. It’s a hard thing to leave behind.

ERIC!
ERIC
Hello?

Where are the Buried Avatars at? It's Dirt Time!
GERTRUDE
Uh… they’re down in the tunnels.

ERIC
What is Dirt Time?

plasmascreenzRatner, write me a poem about rats?
RATNER
[petulantly] No! There’s no such thing as a poem.

MELANIE
Sure, sure.

…

RATNER
Why are you so insistent on forcing me to write you a poem?

dark leitner show me the forbidden rats
MARTIN
[distressed] Oh god…

TIM
[alert] Hey! Hey, look! There’s a box on the floor, it’s a rat, it’s dead, it’s dead…

hey ratner how would you describe your aesthetic? your look? whats going on with you????
RATNER
Well, I guess you would call it ‘nihilism’. That’s what I do. I look into the mirror and say, “What an ugly man”. “What an idiot”.

Is curiosity a virtue?
Or are you simply fearful that pursuit may well bring harm?

jared we all love you, i hope you know that!
JARED
You don’t know what you’ve done.

TIM: Oh, hey. ARCHIVIST: have you seen my crocs?
TIM
[chuckles] Crocs are dangerous, okay. And we don’t stay safe if we’re not being careful.

Meaty, do you ever wear dresses?
MEATY
You know what? Yeah, I do. I wear a lot of dresses, you know? I find them kind of… I like to think of myself as a fashion victim, you know? You know what I mean?

release... the rats..
[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
MARTIN
Are they back?

RATNER
You’re thinking too literally.

Ratner, would you like to write poems?
RATNER
Oh… No, ah, ok. What do you want me to say?

does the archivistbot answer indirect questions about itself differently than questions it is asked directly? it seems like if I ask “archivistbot” a question directly it will be answered in character, but when the archivistbot is mentioned indirectly it says something weirdly sentient.
When you ask a question to or about archivistbot it’s usually interpreted as part of dialogue so it has a character answer it. When you say something about it, it’s often read as part of a statement or longer piece of text which is why there’s no character attributed to it, I just can’t articulate that in this format.



So yes, sort of!




Elias is more attractive splattered with blood, y/n?

Tim, can you hug Jon for me?
[SMALL LAUGH]
ARCHIVIST
[softly] I - I -

[FURTHER SILENCE]
Oh.

Ah.

[FURTHER SILENCE]
I, uh… I think I’m going to go lie down.

[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
Huh.

meaty do you wear jorts?
MEATY
Oh - I’ve worn a lot of clothes.

plasmascreenzthank you for the tea, martin
MARTIN
Sure.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Ah, um, sorry; I didn’t, uh…

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
No, it’s fine; I was just, uh…

[SOUND OF RATS]
[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
[Calling after] Animal, animal!

Is The Clownie still here?
“All the clownies are in,

But no clown doll.

Only the strong are left.

When The Drunken Bandits raided our flat,

They found a box of dolls heads in the hall.

They smashed them all to bits

And threw them in a bin.

I’m not a clown.


how much wood would a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?

honk honk it's clown time
MARTIN
It’s called ‘it’s clowning around.

Hey Jon, if you could be a mythical creature, what would you be? I’d be a Dullahan.
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I would be a fictional one, I suppose.

morningisnotalrightJEATY
Yes.

martin, top 10 favorite avatars?
MARTIN
It’s… uh… it’s probably him.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Oh yeah?

ARCHIVIST
[Exhales heavily] Why are you so convinced of this?

Based on how much the Coffin shows up, it seems to essentially be a character at this point.
Perhaps it representance? An echo of the one who came before? It has no face, but it is always present.

Don't encourage it.DID you see any good cows, Martin?
MARTIN
Didn’t see - no, I’m sorry, I don’t, I’m - I’m not sure, I’m worried.

DAISY
(pain) Same here.

MARTIN
Yeah.

DAISY
They, um… They’re still alive?

MARTIN
Yes. I, I think they are.

DAISY
You think -

Hey meaty! What do you usually wear? Or if you dont wear clothes now, what did you used to wear?
MEATY
Uh, I, I normally wear denim.

hey everyone what are your top 10 favorite crimes! go!
[SPOOKY STATIC]
ARCHIVIST
[effort] Uh… list…
1. The killer is in the detail.

2. There’s no way to tell.

3. There’s no way to punish.

4. There’s no way to… make it stop.

5. I don’t know… I just… I want to leave this place.

6. I don’t want to go to prison.

7. I don’t want to lose anyone else.

8. I don’t want the police to find him first.

9. I don’t want Gertrude to see this.

10. I don’t want… the coffin to… turn…

[SOUND OF COFFIN SHUFFLING]

Ratner, who's hugs do you enjoy the most?
RATNER
(tearful) Oh, I, I don’t, I don’t know… Martin, I would, I would.

helen i love you
HELEN
Come on, let’s get you both back to bed.

Meaty and Ratner beheld that there was a wiki now and experienced emotions.
But, my being vague about their nature meant that I didn’t give any real-world context for their actions.

Ratner, do you trust Martin most out of everyone in the archives?
RATNER
I’m… yeah, I think… Er… Yeah, he’s, he’s good company.

MARTIN
Er. Well, thanks.

Seen any worms in the archives lately, Martin?
MARTIN
Not, not really.

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

MARTIN
No, they’re, they’re just dead worms, or their dead halves, whatever.

ARCHIVIST
Does that count?

Ratner, who do you trust most in the archives?
RATNER
Er… Well, there are… uh, uh, obviously, M –

MARTIN
Who? Who do you trust?

RATNER
[interrupting; sounding slightly less harsh] I mean, I, I think you, er… you know, I’ve got a lot of trust issues.

MARTIN
Yeah, well, I’m, I’m sorry; I didn’t-

Do you like snakes?
BASIRA
Why do you think? Because they’re… They’re pretty cool.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I… suppose so.

Ratner we need more info. Please tell me more about you
RATNER
Fine. I’ll tell you eventually.

[pops out Jonah’s eyes like cocktail olives and roasts them over a gasoline flame]
[HEAVY BREATHING as he takes a huge bite out of his eyes]

[ELIAS SIGHS]
Don’t.

revolutionnaire-e.... . .-.. .-.. ---
[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
ARCHIVIST
Hello?

Michael, can you sing?
MICHAEL
[petulantly] Er… I think so, yes.

ARCHIVIST
Er… I-I don’t really…

MICHAEL
Then again, maybe you just want to talk.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[CLICK]

is gender a fun snack?
ERIC
[Staring] Do you even know what a cookie is?


soft-n-worm:

archivistbot:

Hi, I wanted to let you folks know that the wonderful @lesakuraciel made us a wiki! You can see and edit it here.



i’m losing my mind over this acsdtfzguh


The people who run our wiki are so funny & wonderful I'm so grateful for themSo, Basira, I think I’ll take you up on that offer for a good movie kiss.
BASIRA
I very much hope so. (long kiss)

BASIRA
Huh. I’ll go easy on the popcorn.

Clicked the notification for that last post and every bone in my hands cracked. Incredibly cursed.
Very sorry that happened to you. Incredibly cursed indeed.



askGood idea to sign these from now on just in case probably...Anonymous[INCESSANT CLANGING]
BASIRA
Can you hear me?

ARCHIVIST
Oh, I, I think so. There’s a, a lot of activity, a lot of sounds. It’s a little bit off, a bit off-kilter, but…

[RESUMES WRITING]
It’s fine, it’s, it’s just… sounds.

Georgie how is The Admiral? Could I pet him?
[SMALL LAUGH]
GEORGIE
I, uh… I think he’s going to be quite comfy.

ARCHIVIST
Pet, I - please, Georgie.

GEORGIE
Ah. Yes.

daisy may i kiss you? just once on the cheek?
DAISY
(soft, shaky) …Yes.

[STABS ELIAS 23 TIMES ON THE ARCHIVE FLOOR]
ELIAS
You’re quite the rebel, aren’t you?

I’m a lesbian looking for one good movie kiss, are there any girls willing?
BASIRA
Uh… Yeah? Are you interested in a movie kiss?

will the archivistbot date me
Is that a joke, or could it possibly be that I’m becoming a fetish?

is this an archive or an aquarium? you certainly seem to house a considerable quantity of marine wildlife.
MARTIN
It’s both. The research facility itself is quite a significant draw, as you can imagine. As well as the fish, but… as far as I can tell you you weren’t directly responsible for the animals themselves.

do you keep the octopus near the giant crab
ARCHIVIST
I, I mean, sure.

MARTIN
Octopuses are fine.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Right, okay, um. So.

Did you know that the octopus is a type of shrimp?

BASIRA
No, I didn’t know.

MARTIN
Shrimp?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

fanning self...I love how so many people have collectively adopted Alan Ratner
MARTIN
So have you.

do you keep the octopus near the giant crab
ARCHIVIST
I, I mean, sure.

MARTIN
Octopuses are fine.

ARCHIVIST
Oh. Right, okay, um. So.

Did you know that the octopus is a type of shrimp?

BASIRA
No, I didn’t know.

MARTIN
Shrimp?

ARCHIVIST
Yeah.

archivistaskAnonymousshow of hands, who is down for beating the shit out of elias?
DAISY
[Chuckles] Too many people.

archivistbot, will you date me?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… No, but… er…

[STATIC IS BUILDED]
Wait.

[THROATY LAUGH]
Ok.

[CLICK]

Ratner, can you tell us about your rats?
RATNER
What?

MARTIN
Your rats. H-How many?

RATNER
[Indignant] Why don’t you keep your hands off of my rats?

timelesslyjuneRatner, what is your stance on cuddles?
RATNER
I don’t really know. Everyone always talks about how much I love them, but I’ve always found that they make the world a less horrible place.

Also, Ratner I love you and I would take a bullet for you.
RATNER
(soft) Thank you, but I -

RATNER
(soft) But I - I, I’m scared out of my mind.

vigiloaudiosupervenioI love love love how much the bot agrees with the fandom as a whole that 1) Tim is hot, and 2) Elias is a big bitch.
I mean, I mean, you can throw around plenty of pseudo-philosophical questions about, about, about “Is man born? Is man made? And if so, how does that make us human?’s a really great start, but I don’t think it goes far enough. I mean, you could try to argue with a robot that has no idea how to talk to you, and it’ll wind up being all in your head.

I do toovigiloaudiosuperveniowhy does the Institute have an octopus? how long has it been there?
ARCHIVIST
I don’t believe you.

HELEN
Well, that’s a shame. There’s a lot of very strange stuff down there.

ARCHIVIST
[Sigh] …What?

HELEN
You know about the tunnels?

ARCHIVIST
No, I-I-I think… uh…

HELEN
You find it hard to […] accept that there is a world […] outside of your skin? That your life is a sea of colour?

beats the shit out of elias
Or-Or, stab him in the back. Kill him-

krowlinwhen did you guys get an octopus? does it have a name?
BASIRA
Oh, god it’s stupid.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

BASIRA
So, like, you’re the one who’s in charge, you tell everyone, “Don’t worry, I’m the one who’s going to look after this thing.”

timelesslyjuneRatner, what is your stance on hugs?
RATNER
Hugs? I mean, I’ve always had quite a soft spot for hugging, but… Well, there was a bit of a… er… something in there, you know? Hugging?

dear, lovely archives staff, i must ask. might you be saying that jared hopworth is the sexiest motherfucker alive?
ARCHIVIST
Uh, uh, that’s… that’s quite a turn.

JARED
Turning 40. Well, if you’re trying to trick me into thinking that’s the answer, you’re toast.

ARCHIVIST
[dryly] Yeah. Yeah.

JARED
I’m going to find some more worms.

ARCHIVIST
So you’re going to feed the octopus?

JARED
I’m going to feed the octopus.

He's going to feed the octopusAnonymous[holds Elias under his arms like he is Longcat] [softly] stinky man, stinky man, evil stinky garbage man...
ARCHIVIST
Statement ends.

Well, this makes me… deeply unhappy.

alright, a followup if i may: how much skin does one need to be sexy?
The answer, I think, is that we don’t really care.

I mean, we do want to be sexy, but not as much as we want to be seen.

Can the archives crew say ace rights???
BASIRA
John, this is -

ARCHIVIST
(overlapping) Ace rights?

BASIRA
Yeah.

hey jonathan you’re autistic right? how do you usually stim? jonathan stims what will he dooo
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I, I, I stim.

TIM
Right.

ARCHIVIST
And, well, I, I think that’s pretty much it, I suppose.

Hey Jon, would you kill a bitch (Elias)
ARCHIVIST
Oh - god, what do I know about ending a life?

morningisnotalrightmichael distortion .. might i kiss you
MICHAEL
[dryly] Always was a favourite of mine, really.

ARCHIVIST
Oh – well, of course. And speaking of kisses, I think you have a lovely pair of hands.

MICHAEL
Can I keep the jacket?

ARCHIVIST
Of course.

squints..Anonymouskisses the ORIGINAL elias
ELIAS
[whispered] It’s quite simple, really. I don’t really know how you’re feeling, do try to talk me down from my precipice.

I'll allow it but yer on thin ice 👁️kisses elias
No.

thoughts for the magnus institute: how many eyes does one need to be sexy?
ARCHIVIST
So many eyes.

[HE POPPES]....
It’s time.

leafybonesIS. ELIAS. HOT.
ELIAS
There is something very wrong with you.

Mr Jared Boneturner please pop my back!
[HE POPPES.]
JARED
Oh…

JARED (CONT’D)
It’s fine.

How hot is georgie on a scale of one to ten
HELEN
Oh, it depends a bit. Is the heat in the fridge, or in the oven, or somewhere?

HELEN
I know, but I don’t exactly know how much the air con works for you.

GEORGIE
[Laugh] Do you have a problem with the ventilation?

elias, do you want to be good?
ELIAS
[Surprised] No.

Tim, who is the hottest avatar that doesn’t work at the Magnus Institute?
TIM
[Brief laughter] No one is.

MARTIN
Oh… sure.

So Tim is the dungeon master?
ARCHIVIST
He’s not actually running the place, he’s just - serving as a point of cohesion among the players.

TIM
He’s also the one who decides who gets to go on the occasional date.

ARCHIVIST
Point taken.

Fuck off, Elias!
ELIAS
[tearful] What was that?!

ARCHIVIST
Oh…

Tim, how hot is Martin scale of 1 to 10?
TIM
Oh god it’s 9.7.

ARCHIVIST
99th percentile.

Ratner you are made for hugs. Ily.
RATNER
Oh… I…

RATNER
God, don’t touch me.

Jon, what's the worst date or hookup you've ever gone on?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… nothing. Just, well, I guess we, we went for drinks once, he was super weird about it, and I thought he was super creepy, you know?

And, well, I was just about finished here, and, and when I asked him about his job he just sort of shrugged, and told me he just sort of checks off, you know, the items on his bucket list, and like I’m not really sure how much that’s part of your job…

Martin, what would your perfect date look like?
MARTIN
[overlapping] Oh! No, no, I would love to think that my ideal date would be any…

do any of you know some good jokes?
ARCHIVIST
Well, here’s one: the Archivist.

elias, you bastardly bastard, what do you have to say for yourself?
ELIAS
Ah, nothing much. Just wish I could get some answers for that old woman, but I can tell you, she was not in the best shape.

Archives crew dungeons and dragons game who’s in
ARCHIVIST
Uh… me.

TIM
So, there’s no dragons, just… uh… er…

ARCHIVIST
I mean, you can’t be serious.

Could Nikola not use Martin's skin too? Like, [Sounds of peeling]
a banana?

How hot is Martin on a scale of 1 to 10?
MARTIN
[Flustered] Hot…?

BASIRA
How hot is Martin on a scale of 1 to 10?

MARTIN
[Flustered] I don’t know…

BASIRA
How do you feel about this?

MARTIN
[Bitter laugh] Oh… I don’t know…

BASIRA
Right, well, I was just gonna ask Tim about it.

Who in the archives is the best at dungeons and dragons
BASIRA
[immediately smitten] Yes. Yes, I am.

What is Elias's favorite band?
MARTIN
Oh, it’s, uh… it’s, uh -

ELIAS
[confused] No, no, no, it’s okay, Martin. He, he likes many genres, but […] He prefers folk.

internationalfeelGet his ass!
ARCHIVIST
(softly) Huh?

[BEAT.]
[ARCHIVIST (CONT’D)
(gets it) Oh - (slight pause) What did you want me to do-

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN. THE MUSIC IS LOUDER, NOW.]
ARCHIVIST
Huh.

Who is your best friend?
MARTIN
I… I’m best friends with… (inhale) best friends with Jon…

PETER
[agitated] Best friends? If you’re implying that there’s any sort of chemistry, then I’m dead.

MARTIN
[slight laugh] What?

Abot how did you create characters?
TIM
Oh, you’re the one who’s in charge, right?

ARCHIVIST
[Chuckles] Creativity doesn’t come from complacency.

TIM
[Laughs] Well, there you go.

martin do you have any advice for coping with the lonely when you're in isolation :(
MARTIN
Ok. So… how do I deal with the lonely. Through the Skype?

ARCHIVIST
Well, probably not. I mean… there’s no power running through the building, or… where?

MARTIN
Oh, just turned off the lights.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

basira's city now
ARCHIVIST
Right…

BASIRA
It’s gonna get ugly.

David, do you still work as a refuse collector or have you moved on to new work?
DAVID
It’s been a hard few years. After the event I was living with my parents, but I got very laid off at the end of January.

David Atayah, do you still think about 93 Lancaster Road?
DAVID
I guess… um… yeah.

[MORE CHAIR SCRAPING]
DAVID
So, your - story ends, then.

DAVID
(heavy inhale) It’s hard to put into words how it feels to be absent. Hidden away in the suburbs, so isolated and so forgotten that it sometimes seems as though the only things that move there are the people you don’t notice are gone.

Does Daisy know she has the sexiest voice?
DAISY
Yeah. Y’know. The sexiest voice.

I feel for anyone who stumbles across this for the first time and has no idea how to digest the thirteen pages of kissing and meaty/ratner lore
Yeah… Every time I get a follow notification I think, “Oh, they’re in for a treat…”

There is so much stuff on this blog and so much of it is almost incomprehensibleI feel like people might follow for the cute/funny stuff and be very confused to see what the bulk of posts actually look like...Meaty, do you think David would be happy to see you again? Considering what you are now and his previous experience with the Flesh?
MEATY
[Considering] Hard to say.

MEATY (CONT’D)
He didn’t tell me what was wrong back in 2014, so I -

Who has the best taste in movies?
TIM
Oh, it’s hard to beat the Batman. He’s badass, he’s fearless, and he wears a top hat.


Statement of Peter Lukas, regarding his relationship with Elias Bouchard:

elias can you pretty please tell me the most effective way to hurt you?
ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] Oh, I, I’m pretty good at it.

[HE HITS HIM WITH THE KNIFE.]

Is Malcolm gone again?
MELANIE
He, uh… he went slightly… he, err… he left the room.

How hot is Tim scale of 1 to 10?
ARCHIVIST
I don’t know.

10 isn’t hot enough

10 isn’t hot enough…

10 isn’t hot enough…

10 isn’t hot enough…

10 isn’t hot enough…

10 isn’t hot enough…

10 isn’t, isn’t even…

11 is that a joke?

12 is that the answer?

13 is… I don’t know.

14 is it going to be a good idea?

15 is… I don’t know.

16 is… I don’t know.

17 is… I don’t know.

18 is… I don’t know.

19 is… I don’t, I don’t know.

20 is… I don’t know.

21 is… I don’t, I don’t know.

22 is… I don’t, I don’t know.

Who here has a problem with my boy?
[SHE SIGHS.]
BASIRA
Yeah, he’s a bit loud.

Elias, your archive staff deserves a raise.
ELIAS
Not from me, no.

What would Martin do if someone threatened Jon in front of him?
MARTIN
I’d tell them to get lost.

ELIAS
That’s quite understandable, Martin.

MARTIN
Get away from me!

ELIAS
Of course, but you would be risking your life, wouldn’t you?

MARTIN
Get away from me or I swear I’ll kill you.

Truth or dare?
ARCHIVIST
You know the answer to that.

Gerry opinion on dungeons and dragons tho 👀
GERARD
I dig it. 👀

abot kissing booth
It was late August and I was still wearing gloves, but I remember that it felt like it was almost afternoon in the heat, with the humidity at an all-time high. It was almost asocial, which I rather liked. Half the people working there were there because they’d been to sleep, half because they’d ordered the wrong sort of tea. The man who called himself “The Duke” leaned close, mouthing to me in a quiet voice the words of the day.

“We are terrible at providing information, he said. “We are where we are without your help.”

How are our favorite archival staff doing during their quarantine?
BASIRA
I’m… Well, I’m the one in charge, so…

ARCHIVIST
No, Basira, it’s -

[CLICK]

whoever owns the grey honda civic in the parking lot you left your lights on
ARCHIVIST
Thank you.

Hey, Meaty, what are some of your fondest moments with David?
MEATY (STATEMENT)
His passion for mechanical things, such as the revolving door, is second to none. And yet, here we are, stillborn in our quest for balance, and his work, the unvarnished beauty of it. To actually see the gears turning inside of his skull with such excitement.

illusion-of-sea-axesDavid Atayah, do you miss James? I'm sure he misses you.
DAVID (BACKGROUND)
Yeah.

I miss you.

DAVID
It’s funny, you know. James was always like that. He’s a bit of a roller coaster, I always loved him, but now, I think he was my brakes the whole time.

h-hewwo is anybody thewe
MARTIN
Uh… no, I-I guess not.

How hot is Jon on a scale of 1 to 10?
MARTIN
(tearful) 9.

9/10

Yeah... I can dig that.Who in the archives has their grafting boots on then?
ARCHIVIST
(indignant) Naked grafting! What - excuse me?

I did read this really fast as 'gaffing boots' as in? Shoes made of gaff tape (we've all done it)babyyodablackwoodHow hot is Jon on a scale of 1 to 10?
MARTIN
(tearful) 9.

9/10

Reads the archivistbot updates like the morning paper
If you appreciate using it, make sure to let me know about it, either in the comments or via my website. Also, if you’re smart, don’t you curl into a ball when they read your obituary.

do any of you people do your damn jobs?
DAISY
I - I just try to… relax.

ARCHIVIST
Your. Job.

DAISY
Doesn’t pay very well.

i cant believe archivistbot comes with lore
Good job on that.

I’ll… [dry hm] make something of myself.

[CLICK]

dogmouthhorse*cuddles Ratner*
“Can I have a kiss?”

“Of course.”

As I stood there, the soft embrace was a blanket of sound asleepness. The archivist sighed, contented slumber.

I was dreaming, he told me, “a peaceful life.”

I wake up, you idiot.

*glomps Malcolm*
[SLIGHTEST PAUSE WE EVER MET.]
MALCOLM
[Tired] I’ll go, then.

Hey Jon! I love you ❤️ Stay safe! Tell Martin I said hello. :)
ARCHIVIST
Right.

And… and…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
[Sotto voce] Right.

And… and… [shaky inhale] I don’t think you can outrun the lingering effects of your trauma.

MARTIN
Well, I tried. I, I sought out those R-R-Reliable old friends, like they were there for us, but they seemed too distant. Like they didn’t really exist. And when I looked, I was not there. I, I was on the streets, as it turned out.

ARCHIVIST
Tell me about the Lonely.

MARTIN
[Exhales heavily] Oh, what?

ARCHIVIST
I, er… Are you alright?

MARTIN
…

No, I’m not sure.

They, um… They’re… They’re just… there’s no one else around, and I, I feel… unsafe.

I mean, I’m, I’m not sure that’s a…

morningisnotalrightThe things? What's waiting for us in the tunnels, Malcom?
MALCOLM
Don’t be obtuse, Jon. Places that have a - a life that… some way. They hide things.

Ratner, I know you think anyone caring for you is a bad idea, but i love you regardless.
RATNER
[strained] Well, that’s not… Thank you.

can i beat up peter for you martin?
MARTIN
[Giving Daisy a thumbs up] Yes.

i want to kiss MALCOLM
MALCOLM
Well, there you have it.

[SMALL LAUGH]
On another note, I need to make it clear - I’m no lip service, nor am I in the business of, um -

[MALCOLM MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST]
Wait.

[CLICK]

what would you do if a man kissed you, elias?
ELIAS
…

It’s too complicated, John. What is simple is not simple. And kissing someone is… kissing them. There’s more than one way to kiss someone, and it’s not… quite right. It’s not quite right because, sometimes, you can’t just put your lips on someone’s face. In my line of work, I try not to do that a lot. Most of the time, it’s not even my job to explain the difference between proper and inappropriate, and I’m sure you’re not going to like it one bit.

Sasha, my wonderful wife, I love you! May I have a kiss?
SASHA
[hesitant] Oh, probably. Love you too.

Basira, what are your thoughts on Alan Ratner?
BASIRA
Is that… huh, he, uh… he’s, he’s quite a nice guy, actually. I mean, he’s nice, but… you know, he’s nice because he’s nice. You know, he’s a narcissist, there’s no doubt about tha. He’s very touchy-feely, which I, I guess you could call it, but he definitely utters things that are designed to manipulate and call people in his vicinity. He has a keen interest in the paranormal, but his skills are either not suited to the task, or are just not up to the task. He’s more of a problem if you, um…

MARTIN HAVE YOU BEEN KISSING GHOSTS
MARTIN
It’s pretty disgusting, actually.

ARCHIVIST
[Laughingly] So are you.

can anyone tell me how to kiss a ghost??? please????
ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [sigh]

MARTIN
[softly] Right, okay.

[kisses]

ARCHIVIST
God, this is embarrassing.

hey distortion who were you before you were michael?
MICHAEL
Before… Oh! No, no, I mean… I mean, it’s not like anyone’s business -

[MICHAEL MAKES A SOUND OF EXTREME DISGUST - IT’S VERY CLOSE, AND FOR A MOMENT, WHEN HE SPEAKS, WE HEAR THE RUSTLING AND THE RUSTLING OF PAGES.]
MICHAEL
[Wheeze] Oh well; [wheeze] thank you for the tea, by the way; it’s a real shame about your illness ;)

MALCOM?? MEATY?? WHO?
ARCHIVIST
Oh, shit! No, no, it’s, it’s fine, just… just keep your voice down.

Your commission is through the letter box.

Hello Jon and Martin and others! What is my name? I'm very confused about what to call myself.
ARCHIVIST
Uh… well, uh, I-I… I think… I think you might… I mean, you’re the one who’s in charge, so…

Jon and Martin don't have any names for you todaysorry about that!Maybe it might help to ask a parent what other names they were considering for you before you were born?captaincravatthecapriciousRatner, I love you with all my heart.
RATNER
Oh, yeah? FORGET ABOUT IT.

[CLICK]

archivistbot, is everything okay over there?
BASIRA
Looks like it.

ARCHIVIST
I mean - animals, death, insects, spiders, they’re all alright.

BASIRA
You can take all the time you want, but you’re never going to get everything under control. You’re the only one responsible for the whole world, Jon, so you’re always going to be something of a -

ARCHIVIST
Just stop!

BASIRA
I’m sorry, I just…

[shoves Martin] outta my way gayboy [kisses nikola]
NIKOLA
Oh! [giggles] Is everything alright?

MARTIN
Yeah. Yeah, I’m alright.

NIKOLA
Martin, this isn’t right.

MARTIN
What, why is it?

NIKOLA
Is that a joke?

MARTIN
I don’t know!

Hey Ratner? I love you
RATNER
Oh…

[DEEP SIGH FOLLOWED BY BACKGROUND NOISE]
I’m not sure that’s a good idea.

Oh. Malcolms back. How were the tunnels, Malcolm?
MALCOLM
Ah-ha! Yes. Er, they’re quite a sight. You know, not to mention the things waiting for us down there.

meaty, are you one of us (us being romance-positive aros)
MEATY
Yes.

MeATY (STATEMENT)
He loved me, just like that. Not just the affection, but the sense of being wanted. Mine, at least.

It’s a strange thing to really internalize those first few weeks, but once we were in his room, his eyes only moved a fraction of an inch to focus on me. And those eyes didn’t leave. Not like he used to, when I was a child.

I was a strange child. I was self-conscious and embarrassed at everything, and if I was raising my hand to hide it, people would stare at me. But that’s not me, is it? I’m not ashamed to admit that I was weird. It’s not even my own fault that I ended up like this.

mrvantascan jon and tim both give martin a kiss on his cheeks? he deseves lots and lots of love.
I’m aglow with love; it’s like a wave of love washing over me, and it’s moving through the waves of love like the tide. It’s-It’s making me feel special. It’s like the tides are turning, and tomorrow will be a new day.

I’m s-still waiting for something to happen, still waiting for that special someone to shine a light on my darkness, but I know it’s there.


Excuse me, Mishelin, I don’t know who you are, but who gave you the RIGHT to dictate whether or not I care about Michael?

Michael, I love and miss you :(
MICHAEL
I know, well, I certainly hope so, but that’s a pity.

MISHELIN
I’m afraid you don’t really care, I think.

Elias who's your favorite archival assistant?
ELIAS
Oh…

MARTIN
[astounded] Favorite of, I mean, everyone.

ELIAS
Mostly myself, but you…

Helen what do you think of the archivist??
HELEN
I think it’s a solid 7 on my scale.

Georgie I love you
GEORGIE
(overlapping) I love you, too.

is jane prentiss here? i would Love To Kiss Her
ARCHIVIST
Uh… Yeah. Right.

PRENTISS
Thank you, Archivist.

ARCHIVIST
Uh… Yeah.

[CLICK]

meaty is so confused by our newfangled slang terms. meaty, are you a boomer? (a nice one?)
MEATY
Uh - no.

GERARD
Well, he’s not wrong.

In fact, you look great.

MEATY
Thank you.

At this point it just sounds like everyone in the archives kisses each other.
ARCHIVIST
[desperately] Not anymore.

the person i most want to kiss right now is
none of us, it’s just you.

hi! hi Jon! yes! I want to kiss you because I love you! gentle kisses for everybody! (please imagine that this message was sent by a large and very friendly dog.)
ARCHIVIST
(soft) Hi.

MARTIN
Oh darling.

any tips for surviving the apocalypse?
ELIAS
Survival tips?

ARCHIVIST
I… suppose… ah… ah…

ELIAS
Well, the first is to keep your supplies small.

STOP IT NOW YOU HORNY SIMPLETONS
ARCHIVIST
[Angry] [Snarl] [Snarl] [Snarl]

I’m not - I’m not okay!

[SOMETHING IS SLAMMED, OR HIT.]

You're embarrassing Martin guys!!!
MARTIN
……

It’s okay, it’s okay.

MARTIN
Look, you don’t have to worry about all this stuff, okay?

yeah. jon and daisy. daisy and jon.
ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [sigh]

DAISY
It’s - hard. It’s all a bit - Jon… It’s me.

Who do you all think is the best kisser in the archives?
MARTIN
Er… sorry, I, I think it’s just, the way he smiles, the way he speaks, it, it’s just… [sigh] thank god, he, he m,ms…

Martin Forgets LanguageHey guys, is it weird having everyone ask who all kisses better?
TIM
[Bitter laugh] Egads.

MARTIN
uh…

TIM
Everyone… who… who doesn’t… kiss better?

MARTIN
[Blunt] Kissed better by a ghost, I, I’d venture to say.

ratner is metaphorically blind, because tim has been flirting with him for weeks and he hasn’t noticed
I assume this is why he reacted so strongly when I brought the subject up. I should have expected that reaction, but instead we had a pleasant chat about cats.

Tim, do you have a crush on Ratner?
TIM
What?

ARCHIVIST
Hmm… maybe?

TIM
Hmph.

ARCHIVIST
Do you know him?

TIM
No, uh… no, well, yeah, I know… uh, he’s, he’s good company.

ARCHIVIST
Good luck, Tim.

[DOOR OPENS]
TIM
Righto.

TIM
Right.

[CLICK]

Don't worry too much Martin, just because you're tall doesn't mean you're bad at kissing.
MARTIN
Uh… well, I wasn’t bad at it, okay.

MARTIN
I know, I know, I… I got the job done, you know.

Gerry, am I allowed to kiss you?
MARTIN
[Softly] I’m sorry?

GERARD
Er… no, no, it’s not for you.

MARTIN
Oh…

GERARD
For kissing me.

MARTIN
Right…

statement of james “meaty” grice regarding david atayah
MEATY (STATEMENT)
Why do you need me to live it over again?

It’s been years since I last saw you.

can I kiss the distortion? :]c
[She does kiss him, then, but it’s muffled by the ringing of a bell. It should really have said ‘screw you’, but maybe that’s just because he can’t hear her. Anyway, it sounds like it’s just normal people messing with each other -

[CLICK]

As long as we're on the topic of kissing, what's a gal gotta do to kiss Nikola?
[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN
Well, (faint disgust) -

honestly i'm just glad nobody's kissing elias. nobody's kissing elias, right?
MALCOLM
[Heavy sigh]
Look, if you ever do want to catch him, y’know. Put a fork in his hand and watch him decimate some wedding cake. Screw that, and all that.

shksprDaisy, have you ever thought about getting married?
DAISY
(beat) No.

MELANIE
Oh. Oh, okay.

Gerry deserves kisses!!! Archives crew kiss Gerry please or I’ll do it myself!!
GERARD
(overlapping) Well, there you go.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, uh - (kisses) Mm.

[CLICK]

babyneedsnackthe jonmartin softness produced by this bot keeps increasing at an exponential rate
I can’t help but feel that its creator, or at least its author, is dead. Because this bot’s output does not give the impression it was anything other than scripted.

Martin, what do you think of Ratner?
MARTIN
[Frustrated, speaking quickly] I… I think… er…

He’s fine, I guess, but you… he’s going to be upset.

MARTIN (BACKGROUND)
Ah, but he always is.

Martin can make my tea anytime
ARCHIVIST
You can keep your tea.

elias literally no one asked you
ELIAS (JONAS)
Then if you’ll excuse me.

Meaty said aro rights!!! Icon!! Meaty I love you!!
MEATY
[confused & flustered] What?

MEATY
An icon.

may I kiss you, Martin Blackwood?
MARTIN
Uh…

[Soft, kissing sounds]

MARTIN
Wow!…

MARTIN
Yeah?

[More kissing]

MARTIN
Wow… yes.

[More kisses]

MARTIN
[Very softly] I’m sorry.

[More kissing]

MARTIN
[Very sternly] It’s okay, Jon. No one’s got time for that.

[SLIGHT PAUSE]
[Softly] What are you doing?

[CLICK]

jon: opinion on the words "yeet" and "yoink"?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… yeah. Um, definitely. I, I, I mean, it, it’s probably, um…

Yeah.

Yeah, it’s, it’s definitely something he wrote down. It’s “the pits” –

[DEEP SIGH]

[Soft gasp] [Kisses Archivistbot]
I…

[More kisses, this time on the cheek] Are you alright? You seem to be…

You know you shouldn’t…

I’m sorry.

[Reconsiders] I really shouldn’t be here.

Elias, stop being homophobic.
ARCHIVIST
And what do you want, you want to kiss me?

Sasha, will you be my wife?
SASHA
I already am.

Jon and Tim can kiss all they want. I will kiss Martin myself, if he feels left out.
MARTIN
Wait. Wait. No, no, I’m not sure I follow, I don’t, er…

[MARTIN SWITCHES OFF THE TAPE RECORDER]

Martin, what would you say if Jon wanted to snog in the archives?
MARTIN
Oh…

MARTIN (CONT’D)
Guys? Is this, this really necessary?

ARCHIVIST
It’s - I - I just want to… snuggle with him.


can i give my statement?

Ratner, are you blind?
RATNER
Oh, I’m… I’m not…

Georgie, who’s a better kisser: Jon or Melanie?
GEORGIE
It’s too complicated, you know!

ARCHIVIST
[overlapping] [sigh] Georgie, I don’t want to hear your stupid platitudes.

Sasha who were you talking about? Basira? Melanie? Maybe Daisy?
SASHA
[Chat-like] Daisy?

SASHA
Yeah. Yeah, Jon and Daisy.

Her???? Who is her???? Sasha, tell me!
MARTIN
Hello?

SASHA
Hello?

MARTIN
Are you ever going to answer that?

Tim, what do you think of Ratner?
TIM
Mm. I think he does a lot of good work.

TIM
And he’s, um… I think he’s also, um, blind.

MARTIN
Stop that!

[CLICK]


babyyodablackwood:

Archivist bot be like miss for a dollar is Martin a bad kisser or is he just tall

He can't help it!so much kissing going on in here and yet is Anyome kissing gerry
GERARD
[Not for long] No, no, it’s just the two of us, as best we can understand it.

martin? will you kiss me?
MARTIN
[Chuckles] You bet.

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]

Jon and Meaty say aspec rights.
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Sonny Bower, after a night of hard drinking in the Californian desert.

After dark in the rolling fields, it’s a wild place, and in the middle of the sand dunes, where the highlands meet the sea, there are these strange dreams.

You know, I like to think I’m being hunted, but I have no idea that’s actually the case. I mean, looking at all the weapons stores in this place, I sort of doubt that.

But first, he checks into a small bar in one of the well-kept houses affording him the space. I don’t know how long he waits for this, nor do I care. He takes the seat that best suits him, and the lights are off.

He takes the foot of the counter, turns the light on, and sits down. He is, I’m sure, a disgusting man. Hardly able to stand, with a life vest mass grinding against his fragile thigh, and a cloth pendant clutched in his hand.

The regular customer doesn’t even look at me when I get the receipt, which is always near. He doesn’t look at the register, which I assume is somewhere secret, he just takes the door and wanders aimlessly looking for a copy of the dailies, or the pilot.

The sky is grey. The hour is late, and the wind is howling. The regular customer is dead.

The saddest part, though? He was here before me. He is here. I can feel it. I can see it. I can see the pattern. He goes to all the stops, every lead, every call outs, seeking me out. I know where he is. He always is. He always is.

I'm thinking maybe Martin needs more practice kissing.
Or maybe he’s just too tall.

Tim and Jon have terrible taste in men and deserve each other. Martin deserves to get Everything he wants.
MARTIN
(soft) Yeah.

ELIAS
Everything you say is a lie.

Martin, you're delightful and extremely lovable. Thought you should know.
MARTIN
Oh, really? Really. Um, well, I’m, I’m sorry. I don’t, I’m really not sure if this is really helping.

jon: thoughts on martin and tim making out at work?
ARCHIVIST
It’s… complicated. I don’t know. It’s fine.


danny devito is gangie!!!!!

jon: you're in scotland, you look out the window and see martin, shirtless, chopping logs. what do you do? chose your own adventure
ARCHIVIST
(small laugh) He’s my friend, but he’s also someone who’s going to be… very busy.


and zendaya is meechee!!!!

tim.....who’s a better kisser. jon or martin
TIM
Oh, it’s too complex, there is no easy answer.

MARTIN
[Softly] I just - [Deep breath] I just wanna say thanks.

TIM
Sure.

Sasha, who is your hottest coworker?
SASHA
[Laughingly] You sure you don’t know her?

Daisy, have you kissed Basira?
DAISY
[Flustered] Basira?

DAISY
Oh. Er, yeah, well, I, I kissed her once, you know.

Daisy, will you hug Ratner?
[PAUSE.]
RATNER
Ah… ah, sorry, sorry.

DAISY
Ah, well.

RATNER
Good.

DAISY
How are the, uh… the flowers?

RATNER
Oh, they’re, they’re already dead.

DAISY
Oh. They, they look lovely.

RATNER
Do… them?

No snogging in the archives!
MARTIN
You know what, fair enough.

Are you aromantic, Meaty?
MEATY
Some people are just wired that way. I’m one of them, you know?

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I… suppose so.

Hey I love all of you funky archival folks and that is all
MARTIN
[Tired] …really?

ARCHIVIST
It’s been a pleasure, Martin.

[CLICK]

Tim, who is a better kisser: Jon or Martin?
TIM
Jon.

ARCHIVIST
I don’t - it’s a complex question.

Martin, who is a better kisser: Jon or Tim?
MARTIN
I just - I - I guess I like them both.

ARCHIVIST
Hm.

MARTIN
I mean - Jon’s the one always getting whisked around, and -

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] I just - I, I like you.

Is Michael around anymore?
MARTIN
He’s… Well, he, he came by my flat once, a week or so ago, and he, he, he left a message saying that he was heading over to see if I still live, which, yeah, that’s Michael.

Martin, what do you think of Jon and Tim kissing?
MARTIN
Oh… Um… well, I, I didn’t… I didn’t like it.

I don’t, I didn’t like it when they… when they kissed, it was, it was a… um,

ARCHIVIST
Yes, I think we understand.

MARTIN
[Nauseously] NO! NO, but they were also, um…

MARTIN
Oh, okay! Okay, well, I mean they did kiss, I think, but it was, it was really awkward and, and I just, I just got…

Did you know you can spin yarn from the coat of highland cows?
MARTIN
What? H-How?

Daisy, what do you do for fun?
DAISY
(light laugh) I just smash stuff.

ARCHIVIST
For fun?

Daisy takes you to her backyard to shoot bottles ASMRJon I know u said no snogging in the archives but what about a b&b in Great Yarmouth?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… Oh. Yes. Of course.

Great Yarmouth, of course.

ARCHIVIST
Oh, er… Yeah, well, that’s actually what we were doing. Er… It was, it was too hot.

ARCHIVIST
I just wanted to sleep.

So you are aromatic, Meaty?
MEATY
Pretty much.


Hey does Gerry write poems too? Loving the content guys

Jon, who is a better kisser: Martin or Tim?
ARCHIVIST
[Softly] Tim!

MARTIN
[Strongly] I’m going to kill you!

Daisy and Ratner seem to be the most depressed people here, although Jon and Martin don't seem to be doing too great either
The place is getting so Full of Sins it’s a welcome change from everyday life.

meaty, are you arospec? like, grey-aro, demiro, etc.
MEATY
Aro. What?

MEATY
I’m a roving force of violence.

... Queerplatonic life partners David Atayah and James Grice?
DAVID
It’s a label, you know.


If there were an Avatar of the Buried, what would their name be?

are you aware of any avatars of the buried active currently?
ARCHIVIST
No one that might be a danger -

TIM
Avatars?

ARCHIVIST
Sorry, I don’t - I don’t know, but I’m definitely not okay -

TIM
No, I’m sure they’re not zombies.

ARCHIVIST
[Softly] What?

TIM
Sorry, I just… I just don’t want there to be any confusion.

sweetdreams-andspellsAromantic Meaty?
MEATY
[Irritated] Oh! No, not exactly.

queerplatonic life partners david and meaty
DAVID
Ah, ummm, who’s Meaty?

what do you all think of trans rights
ARCHIVIST
Yes, trans rights are kind of important.


Statement of a statement of a statement. Statement begins.

David Atayah, were you in love with James Grice?
DAVID
[Gritted] No. But I loved him.

DAVID
I don’t know, but it’s not as simple as “are you in love with James Grice”. Sometimes you’re not in love, and it eats at you.

(points at him)Meaty, did an avatar of the end bring you back from death?
MEATY
[Laughs] I don’t know.

MARTIN
I don’t know, but I’m glad you’re here.

MEATY
What?

is the bot getting gayer
BASIRA
Not directly, no. But indirectly, if you catch my drift.

ARCHIVIST
I suppose not.

BASIRA
So, what, this is - just a way for me to continue being boring, like, to you?

ARCHIVIST
[sigh] Yep.

yesMeaty, were you in The Lonely?
MEATY
No, but I’ve… well, I’ve seen quite a lot of people in there, you know.

Ratner, what was the date you were promoted to archival assistant?
RATNER
Oh… ah, sorry, I don’t, I don’t remember, but it was after Valentine’s Day, so I would, it would have been the end of February.

tell me a story, Jonathan Sims.
ARCHIVIST
Story?

MARTIN
Yeah.

ARCHIVIST
Right.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST
Statement of Jonathan Sims, Head Arch - [sigh] former head archivist at the Magnus Institute, London, regarding a childhood encounter with a book formerly possessed by Jurgen Leitner. Statement recorded by subject, February 18th, 2017.

enough about this other guy. David 7, you’re the david i love. how are you doing? go anywhere fun lately? no, wait, sorry...
DAVID
(light, pointed) Oh. I’m doing well! (heh) No, well, this is bad. It’s not every day you get a chance to shine like the light.

DAISY
(overlapping) Shine? Like the sun?

DAVID
(bright, shining) Yeah.

No clue what this means but I'm glad he's bright shining?Jon, have you ever tried vaping?
ARCHIVIST
Uh… no?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Vape Wild
[SIGH]
Oh.

Oh, screw this.

[CLICK]

Statement of Meaty, otherwise known as James Grice, regarding how they came back to life after killing themself.
MEATY (STATEMENT)
Well, this is stupid. I should be dead. I mean, I should be dead. I mean, they could have just left me to it, but they didn’t. They were in the car, and then they just… disappeared. I mean, they left me behind, and then I woke up in the night, and there’s no one, nowhere, it is, it isn’t my fault.


Hey Owen! Can you list the Henhouse Residents?

OWEN: 
[low, manic giggle] Ah, right! Stupid Henhouse Residents.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE LOW HUMMING]
[THEN THEY FALL BACKWARD, AND THE CHAIR TUMBLES.]
OWEN: 
[still manic, this time with an added edge of terror] Hello?

Simon, what are the rules of the Henhouse?

SIMON: 
Please bear in mind that a Henhouse is a very private place. The Henhouse is just a small group of people living together who have an interest in the sciences. The Henhouse as a whole is more of a meeting place than anything. It’s not really a place that you’re likely to find on purpose.

ARCHIVIST: 
So - So what if someone comes knocking?

SIMON: 
Oh, they’re quite welcome.

GRANT: 
Oh, I met Simon there, you know. He and I both lived at the Henhouse.

SIMON: 
And did you know he’s one of the reasons I’m still here?

GRANT: 
[Softly] I… what?

SIMON: 
Yeah, it’s… it’s quite simple, really. I just wanted to get out -

GRANT: 
Oh, Simon, I… I know.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING]
SIMON: 
[Plastered with kisses] Oh!

Owen, are you friends with anyone in the Henhouse?

OWEN: 
No.

ARCHIVIST: 
Oh…

OWEN: 
No, I’ve just been, just by myself.

ARCHIVIST: 
I… I’m sorry.

OWEN: 
It’s not your problem.


Statement of The Henhouse regarding The Henhouse

I found it in the heat of the sun,

And in the silence of the mist-sweet air;

And in the rapture of the skies,

The calm amid the ashes.

It was thy will that drew me here,

And made you an offering;

Thy will that holds me fast,

And makes you a pledge to never leave your path.

Though you may travel far,

I will stay, pledge, if it brings you much comfort;

Though you may travel far,

I will stay, pledge, if it brings you much peace.

Though you may travel far,

I will stay, pledge, if it brings you much rest.


Statement of Owen regarding the Henhouse

OWEN (STATEMENT): 
There is a strange friendship a man may form with a goose.

I’ll not go into the particulars of his goose, for I could not describe this thing, neither human nor beast. It could not properly have been a bird. I was so large that my arms would be hard pressed to encompass its whole mass. Surely that should give you an idea of its size.

I fed the goose once, when he visited my estate, and it had returned again for more. I was not the only one that time, and it has almost single-handedly depleted my stock of fruit, ham, and other victuals.

Such is the life of Owen Palumbo.


Owen, who ‘owned’ the Henhouse before you?

OWEN: 
Mr. Thomas Mortimer.


Statement of the Henhouse, regarding itself. Statement taken directly from subject.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING]
I have had the skin pulled away from me many times. It is very strange indeed. My bones are strong enough to support myself and those I love. Is that not enough? Is it not enough to keep the love of someone else?

I have the most tender feelings for them, but I know you’ve never really loved anyone. Maybe you’ve just pretended. But I know you don't know them like I do. Feel the joy they feel, the anger they feel, the rush of danger they feel.

I am bitter orange skin, doing everything in my power to keep the flesh from spilling out. I have never let anyone get closer than I am, and if it gets its fingers in, then I will gladly go to whatever lengths it takes to destroy it.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING GROWS POSITIVELY CHORAL]
How much do you know about the Henhouse?

OSTENKO: 
Oh, well, I, um… er, I’ve been doing a lot of research at the Henhouse, and I, I like to… I like to dig, I like to dig into stuff.

Hey Simon, is Ostenko Internationally renowned for something about digging?

SIMON: 
What an excellent question. She's an archaeologist, yes.

[CLICK]
LYNNE: 
…

So, did you… did you sleep?

OWEN: 
Yeah.

LYNNE: 
Well, you look really sleepy.

OWEN: 
Yeah. This is, this is a bit embarrassing.

LYNNE: 
No, I just… Yeah, it’s, it’s…

You, uh…

I think, I think - a bit of your coffee?

OWEN: 
Oh.

LYNNE: 
I mean, it doesn’t even look like you’re drinking it.

OWEN: 
Is it, is it poison?

LYNNE: 
No, I’m, I’m quite sure it isn’t, Owen.

But, I’m pretty sure it’s wake you up.

LYNNE: 
…

O-Of course.

[A DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
LYNNE: 
OH! OH! There you are.

OWEN: 
Hello?

LYNNE: 
Hi… No, I’m sorry, I was just, I was just leaving.

OWEN: 
Just leave.

LYNNE: 
Oh… Oh, were you crying?

OWEN:
Yes…

LYNNE: 
…

You look awful. You look awful.

OWEN: 
[Exhales heavily] Thank you, Lynne.

EDUARD (STATEMENT): 
Where do you want me to start? Growing up? My people? My dreams?

I grew up in a small house just outside of Moscow. It wasn’t very nice, but I had plenty of second-hand books, and I was surrounded by my siblings.

My memories of my childhood are, to put it generously, not very good. I was one of the youngest, and though I had good grades, and plenty of friends, day after day, job after job, there was never enough to make me happy. I started suspect it was something to do with me. That I was to blame for my empty and pointless existence.

It wasn’t that I felt any great sadness or despair at this; no, it was that I felt nothing.

I graduated with a degree from Medical School, higher than any other student, but it was clear that nothing would bring me happiness.

I applied to various programmes, but none of the available positions seemed to offer me what I’d spent my entire youth searching for. I returned to my village for a few years to try and explain to my parents why I was going back to my village, but they were deeply ashamed of me, and didn’t seem to have any interest in my life.

I don't feel empty anymore, though.


EDUARD (STATEMENT): 
My parents were the worst. They’ve always been very religious, I’ve always had to make an effort to keep them happy. They’ve always been very materialistic, and seemed to be more concerned with their own happiness than with mine. They treated me like a china doll, not a sentient being with its own life and decisions. They took me through my entire life like a puppet, making me play the parts that I really didn’t want to - having me perform the sorts of things that, as you’ve seen, are not in the best interest of the puppet.

And it wasn’t like they got any better as I grew up. If anything, the opposite was true, as I found, growing older, until it became so dull, that I would rather die than live like that.

I’m sure you can guess what I ended up doing instead of getting hit by that bus.

What I really wanted was to be on my own, to find my own place. Looking back, I realise that what I really wanted was to be a part of something greater than myself.

Grant, please describe Spiderman, Julian’s cat, to us because neither him nor Lynne have been useful.

GRANT: 
She’s soft and round, I think she’s quite lovely.


LYNNE: 
Ah, yes. Good kitty. Er… are you familiar with his history?

LYNNE: 
Well, 2015 was the worst yet for Julian. He’d lost his job, and it was only a matter of time before he was homeless. And that’s when he found the cat. He took it upon himself to take care of it, and it was, apparently, quite effective in soothing his soul. Good kitty.

JULIAN: 
Oh, well, we, we’re a ‘gang of friends’.

LYNNE: 
So, what do you do when you’re not being paid?

JULIAN: 
Oh, well, we hang out, and, and kick ass.

EDUARD: 
Yes, I’m… I’m tired. But I’m alive!

OSTENKO: 
Well, that’s a relief.

EDUARD: 
(tired) Yes.

OSTENKO (STATEMENT): 
So. My name is Io Ostenko. I am an experienced researcher, and sometimes cat person. I have also, on occasion, engaged in some rather unusual research, and those experiences have often resulted in interesting discoveries.

A particularly strange one would be the finding of a corpse. Or, more precisely, an unidentified human corpse. The reality of it is that I have never found a body, but It would be very cool. I would love if my digging could produce one… I don’t have a Spooky Story for you. O-of course, the likelihood is low, but let’s just say it’s not impossible.

OSTENKO: 
[Hm?] Oh, it’s a question, my friend. I don’t care. For all your/his/their insistence that I speak my mind, I have no idea what […] gender […] pronouns are.

Julian, are you a spiderman fan?

JULIAN: 
I am! I love it.

[SPIDERMAN MEOWS]
[JULIAN SPOOKS HIMSELF]
JULIAN: 
Hey, there’s no need for that.

JULIAN: 
What an excellent question! I wonder? What do you know about the foundations of the universe?

ARCHIVIST: 
…

I… I don’t know…

JULIAN: 
No, well, I’m sure you’re aware that the gravitational -

[ARCHIVIST cuts him off mid-sentence:]

ARCHIVIST: 
Oh. Oh, sorry. I didn’t - I just didn’t know what you were an expert in…


Julian, what do you study?

JULIAN: 
I… I study physics.

Holly? Are you at the space station to rescue Rory?

HOLLY: 
Who is that? Yeah, er, uh, yes? Not just me, but the other is a bit of a mess.

HOLLY: 
[Enunciating carefully] “Rory,” is that your friend?

…Are you okay?

REID: 
(coming down) No, uh... no, but I’ll… I’ll keep it together. Sorry. To be honest I - I-I’m really not sure what I expected.

[SOME RUSTLING SOUNDS.]
REID: 
(still a bit shaky) Look, Doc, I - What are you doing? Hollis, where did you get that?

Holly, Reid, what are you doing on the space station?

HOLLY: 
Oh! Well, I’m, I’m here to retrieve whatever, um, [papers rustling] that’s in here. Figure out what’s going on.

[PAPER RUSTLES]
REID: 
[Worried] We should get out of here.

HOLLY: 
I’m sorry, I know this is, this is a lot to take in.

Holly and Reid. There is a robot who really needs help on the station. Their name is Rory, can you please find them?

[SOUND OF METAL BEING KNOCKED]
HOLLY: 
What, this? Uh, what are you doing?

REID: 
A fucking memorial service.

HOLLY: 
[Worried] Oh… oh, okay.

Holly can you turn on the robot? Their name is Rory and they've been alone a very long time. Can you hug them for us?

HOLLY: 
[agitated] I, I’m not sure. They seem… quite dead.

REID: 
Just leave them be.

HOLLY: 
[stammering] What?

REID: 
I, uh… I think they just want some peace. I would.

Reid and Holly, PLEASE turn the robot on. They've been alone so long and they didn't want to die.

[SOUND OF SOMETHING BEING MOVED, SOUNDS OF EFFORT.]
REID: 
(not happy) Oh, you know what, Hollis? It’s a lot heavier than it looks.

HOLLY: 
(deadpan) Yeah, you’re a big boy.

Holly, where are you going to bring the robot when you’re back on earth?

REID: 
I’m guessing The Dump.

HOLLY: 
[Very sternly] Reid, please.

Reid shut the fuck up challenge.

REID: 
[Pained/whispered] I’m sorry. Sorry. I didn’t - I’m not a nice person.

HOLLY: 
[Chuckles] I can’t imagine what that must feel like.

REID: 
It would probably take a lot more than an apology, huh?

Reid, What’s your last name?

REID: 
My name is Reid Jackson.

Hey, Reid, did you... know any of the astronauts on this station?

REID: 
(quiet, sadly) Yeah.

Reid, Holly, where are you guys from?

HOLLY: 
We’re from Kinross.

REID: 
Yeah, right. Um, sort of.

Holly and Reid, how long have you known eachother?

REID:
Er… I, I don’t know, maybe a hundred years.

HOLLY:
Hm, that’s… that’s a long time.

Holly, Reid, are you guys from earth?

REID:
No, I’m from Mars. Fuck off.

Reid I have decided I love you

REID: 
(as one would to a child) Okay.

Holly, are you and Reid rlly from Mars or was that a joke?

HOLLY: 
I mean, I’m not from Mars.

REID: 
Oh, sure, I’m a hologram, you know.

HOLLY: 
I doubt this is the time or place.

REID: 
You are.

[Sigh] Fine.

Wait! Holly and Reid, do you know what happened on the space station to kill everyone?

HOLLY: 
We don’t know.

[SOUND OF REID RETCHING AND GASPING]
[HEAVY BREATHING & TEARS]
HOLLY: 
Reid, I’ve got you.

[HEAVY BREATHING SLOWS]

Reid, are you lonely?

REID: 
Yeah. I, I guess - (his sentence catches in his throat as he tries to say it) I’m just - (sigh) Yeah.

REID:
I feel under a lot of pressure. Like I'm being… like I'm being buried in my work. I'm sorry. Sorry.

Holly, what does Reid look like?

HOLLY: 
Oh, he’s quite a sweet young man, isn’t he? He has a few tattoos, the kind you do with a needle, I mean, not at a tattoo parlour, that is. His hair is an unruly mess. [Chuckles] I think he thinks he looks cool.

reid what's your favorite animal?

REID: 
[Disbelief] Er… no, I, I, I don’t, I, I don’t think I have a favorite animal. I’m afraid of, ah, most of them.

Where are you and Reid now, Holly?

HOLLY: 
[Chuckles] Just waiting.

REID: 
Hm.

HOLLY: 
It’s too bad. I had hoped we’d find something helpful.

REID: 
I’m sorry.

HOLLY: 
It’s… It’s not your fault.

REID: 
It is. If I’d not been such a dick about it, I’m sure we’d have a lot better luck.

HOLLY: 
Dude, look, if you ever do want to talk, I’d love to hear it.

REID: 
[Incomprehensible noise]

reid, holly, what do you guys do for fun?

REID: 
Drafting agendas, and having a good time.

HOLLY: 
For Fun.

REID: 
Sitting in pubs drinking lagers?

HOLLY: 
…
Yeah?

REID: 
Then what do you do for fun?

HOLLY: 
Well, I play the piano, watch TV, go to parties, you know.

REID: 
I see.

reid, would you tell us about your tattoos?

REID: 
Ah, uh, I, the first was the lion, er, that is, that’s the one on my right arm. I, I got it from a friend of mine, and I, I really liked the look of it. (amused, wistful hm) Yeah.

Holly and Reid, have we found out whats wrong with rory yet?

REID: 
[huge sigh] Sorry, sorry. No, I, er… yeah, I-I think so?

HOLLY: 
Er… no, but they’re pretty much the perfect copy of our own Talbot, so…

Reid, what's your job at Crown Scientific? What do you do?

REID: 
[Nervous laugh] I, um. Weird stuff. I’ve been doing a lot of ‘research’ lately. Like, I have to [Mumbles] ‘research’ done by myself and, well, myself. Guess that, that’s kinda what I do. Enzymes. Did I ever do that? But then I found that out, you know. That’s how it works. So I have a job to do. A lot of responsibilities. And, well, you know, space. Um. I mean, actually, if you’re wondering, I’m, I’m not a space aficionado. I love the outdoors; I’m a great fan of the Alps. Switzerland. Yes, actually. There’s, there’s a lot of different stuff that I do, and, and it’s… it’s a bit overwhelming, trying to, to sort through all the bits that, and I’m, I’m super indecisive, and guess what? I guess that counts as one. Um… Y’know, so, that’s why I’m here.

Statement of Reid Jackson regarding his friend who passed away during the event that occurred on the Crown Scientific space station. Statement begins.

REID (STATEMENT): 
Oh, god, I should be dead. I know I should be dead. I should be dead. I know I should be dead.

Sorry. Fuck. Let me first apologize to whoever was asking this, I’m not sure I’m ready to talk about it yet but I’d like to apologize.

So. Um. My friend. His name is. Was. Earl Barnard. I met him when I was seventeen years old. We’d both been to some of the same parties; no one had really noticed us and no one had really noticed us, we didn’t already know each other, but like, I mean, you know, being left out together. You know, it’s not even like we were any sort of group, it was just that us two being there at a party, well, that’s always kind of an odd dynamic. And then, I was liking some other folks a lot more than I was and I got to know them a lot better. And they were just like, like “yeah, you could dance, you could sing, you could just be yourself!” And like, okay, cool, cool, you know?

It was weird but not like, like you know, in a bad way. I mean, I’m, but I’m just… I was just a weirdo, you know.

Well, all these years later, I’m still here. And a lot of people aren’t.

[Reid rubbing his face, overcome with a wave of dizziness and nausea] Anyway.

Holly an Reid, where are you guys right now?

REID: 
(inhale, his voice calms down) I’m right here.

HOLLY: 
Right here.

[MORE STEADYING. HOLLY PATS HIM ON THE BACK.]
[A DRAWER IS CLOSED IN THE BACKGROUND.]
KINGSTON: 
Hoo boy. You two are killing me.

[For a moment, a predatory smirk crosses his face.]

KINGSTON: 
(breath) Sorry. It’s not that I don’t love you both -

REID: 
(also aware of the potential for harm) Oh - yes, sir.

KINGSTON: 
Just be a good puppy.

[HE CLOSES THE DOOR BEHIND HIM.]

Holly and Reid should it even possible for the Spacefucker robots to become sentient? Or is Rory an anomaly?

HOLLY: 
It makes me sad to think about. I-I mean, they should, theoretically, be able to think, but there’s still the, uh, constraints of the sort of - like obedience thing. So I, I guess I’m not really sure.

KINGSTON:
[speaking over him] Oh, there you are.

REID: 
Hi. Don’t touch me.

KINGSTON: 
[still holding out his hand, amused] I didn’t touch you.

REID: 
You did though, you know.

KINGSTON: 
I didn’t.

[REID EXHALES]
[Kingston is still holding out his hand.]

REID: 
Were you going to hit me with that?

KINGSTON: 
What? Why would I, puppy?

[Reid a breath and prepares himself] Alright. I’ll hit you.

REID: 
[Exhaling heavily] OK.

[A BRIEF MOMENT OF SILENCE. WHEN HE DOES, REID WHIMPERS.]
REID: 
Thanks, sir.

Reid does Kingston hurt you often?

REID: 
Oh, I’m not… (under his breath) Only when I ask.

KINGSTON:

Oh, alright. Fine.

Uh - you can keep the dorm, like, one week?

REID: 
[Whispered] Yeah?

KINGSTON: 
Just be a good boy and stay out of my way.

REID: 
[Whispered] Alright. Alright.

[MUFFLED WORDS FROM REID]
KINGSTON: 
[Low, venomous laugh] I will keep my promises. Be seeing you.

KINGSTON:

[Laughingly] You worry too much, you know.

REID: 
[Sigh] Are you going to kill me?

KINGSTON: 
[Soft hm] No, I’m not going to kill you, puppy.

[PAUSE]
REID: 
I miss them.

KINGSTON:
[Hands him a cigarette]

REID: 
[Continuously] What do you miss, sir?

KINGSTON: 
[Lightly] I miss you.

REID: 
[Heavyly] So do I.

KINGSTON: 
I can’t imagine what it must feel like to be a man without a purpose.

REID: 
[Heavyly] And yet you have come to make me one, sir.

KINGSTON: 
Can I hold you?

REID: 
You can.

KINGSTON: 
Mm. Is this her? Is this your Fiona Apple -

REID: 
Ugh, give that back!

KINGSTON: 
[Exhales heavily] Yes.

REID: 
…
Can you stay, please?

KINGSTON: 
[Enunciating carefully] Not if I’m being honest.

I’ll see you later, darling boy.

[DOOR CLOSES]
REID: 
[Whispered] Yeah. Yeah, I’ll see you later.

Statement of Reid Jackson regarding Kingston Crown

REID (STATEMENT): 
(inhale) Ah, it’s good to, uh, to be back. I mean, I’ve not really had much of a chance to interact with the outside world, and this place is far too big for me to ever truly be alone. So much of what I’ve been doing is, well, it would be, would be beyond my paygrade, I guess.

Oh! Oh, it’s, uh… right. He’s different. He’s, uh… changed. I guess that’s kind of… what you call it, right? I mean, he’s still the same tall, blond, with a constant smile, I think he’s gotten a lot thinner, and, I dunno, like sharper around the edges.

It’s, it’s not that, though, he still looks the same, but  he just seems to be a bit - freakier? Scarier. I don’t, I don’t really know why. Look, he did get, uh… a lot cleaner around his office, which was weird. I guess he just grew up, huh.

Okay. So, like - maybe I can talk to him about it. Um. F,For now, it’s just - I just - I just want to - to talk to you.

Reid was Kingston always like this? Do you think he could be possessed by something?

REID: 
He’s got so much to deal with, doesn’t mean I can understand it, though. (long pause, sniff) Wish I knew. Um, possessed would also make me sound kinda like an idiot, but yeah.

Kingston why are you such a creep to Reid?

KINGSTON: 
[heh] I’m not, though.

[Reid grabs Kingston by his arm, holds him very tight.]

KINGSTON: 
[trying to free himself] Alright. Alright! Jesus, Reid!

REID: 
[huff]

[Reid takes Kingston's by the hand]

KINGSTON: 
I’m not going anywhere, puppy.

REID: 
[Short laugh] Mm-hmm.

Reid you don't have to cling to Kingston he's no good for you!

REID: 
[Seriously flustered] O…kay… Look, it’s not actually as bad as everyone thinks. I’m an adult, you know? I’ve dealt with enough adult bullshit to make my own decisions. It’s like, stop trying to spoon feed me, ok!

Reid, what if I told you Kingston IS spiders.

REID: 
You’re sure you know what a spider is?

Reid, do you... have a crush on Kingston? :(

REID: 
[Softly] Oh… Um, I did.

[A BRIEF WHIMPER OF PAIN]
REID: 
[Enunciating carefully] “Anything else?”

Reid, why does Kingston call you puppy?

REID: 
[Eugh] Well, I’d been trying to get his attention, so I started volunteering at this animal shelter because he loved animals so much. Um, yeah.

[Reid rubs his face]

Sorry Reid we really can't wait, the boat is going to leave soon. It's time to go to the Henhouse.

[EXT. SCOTLAND, AROUND BAY]
REID: 
I’m going to throw up.

HOLLY: 
You’re not on a ship yet, buddy.

REID: 
(quietly) Well - I am anyway.

holly, tell us more about your wife?

HOLLY: 
Oh, uh, yes. Her name’s Lucy. Er, she’s, she’s a lot, a lot of fun.

Holly, what's your last name?

HOLLY: 
It’s Barber. My wife’s parents called me ‘Clara’ when we were dating, and then I married her, and they still haven’t learned my name.

holly you said you have a wife, right? would you mind telling us about her?

HOLLY: 
Yes, uh, she’s lovely, and I love her.

hello kingston i have a gift for you! *drops anvil on his head*

KINGSTON: 
Well, this is embarrassing.

An arthropods greatest weakness is newpaper! [Begins violently hitting kingston with a rolled up newspaper]

KINGSTON: 
[Not your typical spider] This is ridiculous! This is not a normal way to go about things!

here kingston hold this (drops a large granite block on his head)

KINGSTON: 
(humorless) Well (hmph) I’m not going to let this happen again.

KINGSTON: 
Oh! Er, okay. Anyway, do you know anything about the current whereabouts of Reid?

Kingston, are you possessing that body or has it always been your own?

KINGSTON: 
Yes. I borrowed it.

Kingston, are you serving the web or not? [Cocks gun]

KINGSTON: 
Bet you can guess the answer.

reid whats stopping you from just packing up and leaving crown scientific. is kingston holding you hostage?

Avatar
REID: 
[Whispering] There’s no way I could afford to be without it.

Reid I think you and Holly should leave crown scientific, something sounds deeply wrong with that place.

Avatar
REID: 
…

[Very softly] I’m trying to think about what I would even do if I left. I mean, I’m not sure what I would do.

Reid or Holly, can you tell us about what information Crown Scientific was sending to space to be filed?

REID: 
What?

HOLLY: 
Just the sort of things that would get the place registered as a Cultural Centre. You know, just thinking about it now, the whole… questionable legality of it all, the morality of it, I, I guess. Not good.

REID: 
[Sigh] Putting it all together, yeah.

Statement of Walter Henning, regarding his feelings towards The Henhouse

, taken from a letter, dated 13th of February, 1916. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): 
Dear Abby,

It is my fondest wish that this message should find you in good health. I am well aware of the anger and frustration that have characterized your relationship with me, but I feel that it is important, as I draw near the end of my life, I cannot in good conscience allow myself to maintain this less than ideal cordiality between us. I hope that you will forgive me for such a foolish letter. In my old age, my vision has passed over from red to white and now I see clearly enough the futility of my old and furious resentment of you.

I have been alone in the house for about twelve years now. I would like to remind you once again that the house is a wonderful place, full of warmth and humanity, and it is my wish it will continue to be so for many more.

I should probably try and explain things to you in a more clear way. I’ve tried to keep it as brief as possible, as I find talking about death very difficult. You can certainly fill in all the blanks yourself if you like.

I have no wife, nor other family, nor have I any close friends. However, I have a home and I have a job to do.

I want to sleep. I hope that I will soon be able to rest.

Your obedient servant,

Walter Henning

ARCHIVIST: 
Yes. Well… Huh.

Henhouse, on a scale of 1 to 10, how much did you love Marcellus and Henning?

[THE HENHOUSE CREAKS.]
I cannot choose a scale on which to measure the intensity of my loves. I have a love that cannot be objectively measured. Numbers are disjointed and indignant. I find these calculations obscure the true magnitude of what I am.

[EXT. SUNSET, SOMEWHERE]
[THE HOUR OF THE WORLD HAS PASSED IN A PLACE WHERE HUMAN CHANGE COULD NOT HOLD.]
HENNING: 
The earth has been so soft in the heat of the sun.

MARCELLUS: 
The rains will come eventually.

HENNING: 
The world can’t see us now, can it?

MARCELLUS: 
It always seems to catch me.

HENNING: 
What are you doing?

MARCELLUS: 
Why is your hand so soft to my hand?

HENNING: 
[Softly] I love you.

MARCELLUS: 
And what does it mean to you?

HENNING: 
[Smilingly] Just - feeling the world spinning
and seeing all of it.

MARCELLUS: 
Is this the end of the world?

HENNING: 
It’s not.

MARCELLUS: 
[Softly] What?

HENNING: 
This is the beginning.

[MARCELLUS EXHALES.]
MARCELLUS: 
Oh.

HENNING:
(big sigh) It’s a perfect present we’re living in.

MARCELLUS: 
(inhale, a bit of disbelief) Oh?

HENNING: 
You just - took it on faith and ferried up to Norway.

MARCELLUS: 
I would be happy to go with you to the moon and back. Ah, but for god’s sake, Hen, this isn’t about faith. This is about - (laugh) about feeling.

HENNING: 
Ah. I see.

MARCELLUS: 
Feelings.

HENNING: 
Ah, yes.

[MOURNFUL NOTE]

My dearest Walter,

I have often warned you, of the darkness that lurks within my body. I have seen it in the bed of my dear mother, and I have often felt the presence of angels.

I have traveled far, far away from home, and rarely have I felt such comfort as I did in your company. Is the air purer where you live? As I traveled, I found myself drawn to groves of trees, the fruit trees, the shade of trees, as though they were some sort of sanctuary. Are there trees where you live?

I have often dreamed of it, Walter. As you would have me stay in your home to wait for the end. I fear no land could support me, as no ship could. But I will stay there, and see you again.

Oh, if it be possible, then let your peace be my peace.

Did Henning ever build that garden? How does it look?

MARTIN: 
Oh - Oh, it’s, it’s lovely.

SIMON: 
It does look… uh… uh, uh, not built like a typical garden. Like - circles, like there’s some sort of levels, something.

Henhouse, between Marcellus and Henning - who was most babey?

[HENHOUSE. VARIATION.]
MARCELLUS: 
Is there going to be a garden?

HENNING: 
Oh, there can be. If you want a garden, I’ll build you a garden. Then, if you’re hungry, I can cook you a nice vegetable soup.

MARCELLUS: 
Shut up, you rascal. Why are you so soft.

HENNING: 
[Softly] I just want to talk. I want to show you how much I adore you.

MARCELLUS: 
[Softly] Show me your hands.

HENNING: 
Take them.

Whatever you want, I will gladly give it up.

MARCELLUS: 
[whispered] Okay.

Can the henhouse tell us of the nature of the shadow over Marcellus?

[THE HOUSE IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZES HOW LITTLE WE ARE.]
[MARCELLUS LETS OUT A FEW RAGGED GASP AND WE HEAR WHAT SOUNDS LIKE FOOTSTEPS.]
HENNING: 
(pain) Oh, come on. What’s wrong? You look like you’re about to fall over.

MARCELLUS: 
What? No, I just - I don’t want to bother you.

HENNING: 
You know I’m here to serve you, don’t you?

[CLOTHES RUSTLE]
[HEAVY BREATHING SLOWS.]
MARCELLUS: 
What are you doing?

HENNING: 
Oh come on, I’m not going anywhere.

[WE HEAR THEM KISS]
MARCELLUS: 
(pain) Right, I’ll get this di… right.

[VIBRATIONS CONTINUE]
MARCELLUS (CONT’D): 
Right.


[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING]
[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING GROWS IN VOLUME]
HENNING
“Yours in friendship”...

MARCELLUS
(short sigh of a laugh) Horrid.

HENNING
(humming) So be it.

MARCELLUS: 
You’re my best friend, and I love you so very much.

HENNING: 
I am very fond of you, as well.

MARCELLUS: 
(to Henning) Good.

HENNING: 
I am very glad you’re here.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING]
Well, he was Henning’s friend, and when he got sick, we took care of him. I don’t know if you know how he died. That’s how.

I still remember his eyes, that passionate sort of longing. The sort of longing that makes you feel something, like you have something to lose. He said he had been dreaming of this place for so long, so many years. When Henning found him, it was like no one else understood but us, and when I heard his voice I could feel it burning in me. He was strange, you know. He was bright, and always on the edge of something, but he also seemed to have a sort of weariness to him.

We wanted to stay with him, and that was it. For many years. Until the dream ended.

I really wish he was still here. I really wish he was still here.

Please tell us about Marcellus! [HENHOUSE, NOVEMBER 10TH 1883]

[FAMILIAR FOOTSTEPS.]
HENNING: 
(surprised) Oh dear, are you out of your bed?

MARCELLUS: 
Are you?

HENNING: 
Oh - (small sigh) Goodness, goodness.

[THE TWO OF THEM CHUCKLE.]
HENNING: 
(overlapping) Come on, come on…

[SOME SOUNDS IN THE BACKGROUND.]
HENNING (CONT’D): 
Look, there’s no rush; you’ve still got a long time before -

MARCELLUS: 
(overlapping) I can’t outrun the tides.

HENNING: 
(cutting him off, gently) Can you see the sun?

MARCELLUS: 
Yes, I can.

HENNING: 
It’s early, but it’s bright out here, the air cool and still.

HENNING: 
I suppose that’s good, isn’t it?

MARCELLUS: 
Yeah.

[THE TWO OF THEM MOVE OFF INTO THE BACKGROUND.]

[HENHOUSE, MARCH 20TH 1883]
[sounds of butter being melted]
HENNING: 
[derisively] Why do you think I like you so much?

[SOMETHING CREAKS, AND WE HEAR WHAT SOUNDS LIKE A FEW VOICES SINGING IN THE BACKGROUND]
HENNING: 
Oh, I, I, I am a better cook than you.

[SOMEONE FLIPS A PAGE.]
MARCELLUS (BACKGROUND): 
[interrupting] Now, that’s not true, is it.

HENNING: 
(fond) Yeah.

MARCELLUS (BACKGROUND): 
(snort) Yeah.

[THE SOUNDS OF MARCELLUS EXHALING]
MARSELLUS (BACKGROUND): 
Here’s a litle poem on the hard and meandering ways of you.

HENNING
Oh, the cajoling.

MARSELLUS (BACKGROUND): 
(inhale) The hills are gentle

they are not hidden away

covered in glorious summer's day

Hen lived on the hills

on shoestrings;

And to think,

What an easy life he must lead.

[SOMETHING CREAKS]

[HENHOUSE, 1889] 
MARCELLUS:
(softly) There you are. Will you go with me to the garden?

HENNING: 
(softly) Ah - yes.

MARCELLUS: 
Come on.

[Marcellus takes a few moments to look at him, before he takes Henning by the hand and the two of them stroll along the path. It is very early in the morning and the sky is clear.]

HENNING: 
(softly) Marcy?

MARCELLUS: 
Yes?

HENNING: 
Are you well?

MARCELLUS:
(inhale, a bit of a laugh despite his plight) You said it couldn’t reach me here.

HENNING: 
I didn’t - I, oh, darling - I just - I never imagined it would be this -

MARCELLUS: 
(soft) No, you didn’t.

[HENNING’S QUIVERING FRUSTRATION IS AUDIBLE IN THE BACKGROUND AS MARCELIUS EXHALES.]
MARCELLUS: 
I love you.

HENNING: 
Love you, too.

MARCELLUS: 
I’ll miss you.

[Marcellus draws a breath. It’s strange, he does it just to see if he still can. This is now becoming a fight, and neither of them are willing to lose. They are both afraid. He leans over to kiss him, just once, as he takes his hand in his, and feels the exhaustion, then smiles. They are both afraid.]

Statement of Marcellus Renaud, regarding the first time Walter Henning introduced him to the Henhouse.

OWEN (STATEMENT): 
So it’s another letter. And not a long one, either. It is very small, so very careful, and very thoughtful. And it made me have to sit down, and I think I’m not able to properly stand up yet.

OWEN (STATEMENT): 
My Dear Walter,

You will forgive me, I hope, for not speaking of this to you in person, as I have been in a habit of composing letters to you anyway.

I am grateful you have invited me to share your home with you. I thought it would have been best had you confined yourself to townhouses like the rest of us, but the house is quite a special place. And in all my years of travel, I have never yet seen anything so inviting.

I should like to live like you. I should like to be like you.

I have never been in a room full of people and not been so scared that I would sooner die than be there, but here, with you… I am lucky to have a home where I can be myself.

I love you, Walter.

I’ve been so sick, so full of doubt, and now I look at you, and I know I will get well.

Yours in trust,

OWEN: 
Mmm.

[HE SIGHS.]
OWEN (CONT’D): 
Well. I suppose we should probably let that sink in for now. Let the… the dust settle down a bit, and maybe I will get some sleep.

[HE SIGHS AGAIN.]
OWEN: 
Yeah. (to himself) Okay.

[HE OPENS THE DOOR AND LEAVES.]
OWEN: 
Yeah. (shaky half-laugh) Okay.

Dearest Henning,

How have you been? I’m not sure how much longer I can stand to be away from you. I hope you’re well. I find it difficult to sleep, much of my life is driven by hunger and fear, and I find it very difficult to concentrate, much less to write.

I have been thinking of you often, and this morning I had the most terrifying dream of this vast, roiling sea, stretching out in all directions as far as I could see.

I know I have been touched by something terrible, and I should withdraw into the warm embrace of earth soon. I look up at the sky once again and cannot help but grieve. In the distance, I see clouds forming near the horizon. It may take many years to come to fruition. But when it does, then what will you do?

You’ve been so sweet to me, and I feel the deepest gratitude to you, but I know you’re not for me. You are like the ship, and I, your Jonah. Whatever happens, it will be my doing.

You are too good, and your kisses are too soft. I love you, and I am sorry I never had the courage to truly love you. But maybe that’s okay. You deserve better.

With love,

Your devoted servant,

Marcellus

Henhouse, did people used to sing a lot around you? Back when Henning and Marcellus were around?

[LOW BACKGROUND NOISE]
Long was I silent. I don’t know how long it was before it happened. I heard the singing, though, from somewhere in the darkness. It was a song of some sort, but I could not place it. It was so familiar, yet so far from anything I had ever imagined.

The song was new, and I was young. I could not have been over the age of twenty. I remember it so clearly. The glow of the candles on the wall and the soft singing voices.

I thought: “This must be love.”

It was not a feeling I had expected.

HENNING: 
[Tired] I’m going to bed.

MARCELLUS: 
Do you need anything?

HENNING: 
Will you read me a poem?

MARCELLUS: 
A poem? [soft] Well, here’s the one I wrote for you.

[HE READS.]
You were down in the kitchen

With your face to the glass

You hung up your hat on the rising tide

And rushed out like a hurricane

To meet me at the door

And I felt so warm and so welcome

And I held your hand

I must have missed you.

HENNING: 
Marvellous, Marcellus.

[kisses cheek] Right.

[kisses] Oh, it’s cold, in here without you.

[OWEN Pours a glass of wine and sits bolt upright in an armchair]

OWEN: 
Do you think I’m real?

ARCHIVIST: 
Yes. Yes, I do.

OWEN: 
Are you?

ARCHIVIST: 
Yes.

OWEN: 
I found a letter.

ARCHIVIST: 
Go on.

OWEN: 
Dear Mr. Henning,

On the subject of your invitation to join you, I fear I must decline. the depths of winter are a cruel beast, it would be a grave error to leave the warmth of my home. You have been so warm and so familiar. However, I'm not sure, by how much that comfort would palliate the chill of this tempestuous time.

Winter is closing in, my dear, and if I were to die away from home, well, God only knows.

I have been so hungry. So hungry. But I could not live with you, as I could barely live with myself.

Perhaps I shall see you again, when the swell of the tide comes. And I shall not go hungry.

[He takes a long sip of his wine]

ARCHIVIST: 
Wow! That was… wow.

OWEN: 
Yeah.

ABBY:
I’m sorry, but this isn’t for you.

HENNING: 
(harsh, disgusted laugh) That’s not what this is.

ABBY: 
(overlapping) I’m not going to pretend that everything’s going to be all right.

HENNING: 
(ugh) There is a lot to be scared of. But you don’t need to pretend.

ABBY: 
(to Henning) Do you have any idea what you’re getting into?

HENNING: 
I’m not an idiot.

[ABBY LAUGHS, BUT IT, TOO, IS HUMORLESS.]

HENNING: I love you.

MARCELLUS: 
[Flustered] Oh! Oh, I, er… [nervous chuckle] thank you.

HENNING: 
[Chuckles] I adore you.

MARCELLUS: 
I… Uh… [Appreciates this] I don’t, I don’t know, I don’t know how to, um…

[NERVOUS, UNCOMFORTABLE GIGGLING]
[WE HEAR THE SOUND OF MARCELLUS SLOWLY BEING SANDWICHED BY HENNING.]
MARCELLUS: 
[Splutters] Ah - excuse me sir, sorry. Er, can I… didn't know I was… dating, er, a loon?

HENNING: 
Oh, there’s my boy! Actually, I’m a former loon, now.

MARCELLUS: 
Are you now?

HENNING: 
I am!

HENNING: 
[Points to himself] Do you love the Loon?

MARCELLUS: 
[A little too wistful] I love him.

HENNING: 
Should have known.

[THEY KEEP LAUGHING.]
MARCELLUS: 
[More pointedly] You have a lot of feelings, don’t you?

HENNING: 
[Pointedly] No! I’m a, I’m a very serious person.

MARCELLUS: 
I see.

[HE LOOKS THROUGH PAPERS LIKE A CATALOGUE OF HUMORLESS ANGSTING.]
HENNING: 
(low, nasty) You.

ABBY: 
Henning.

HENNING: 
(harsh) That’s my name.

HENNING: 
(still bitter) So. What do you want?

ABBY: 
(overlapping) I said I’d love a cup of tea.

HENNING: 
(still bile) I thought you only drank blood.

ABBY: 
(chuckles) Hm.

[SILENCE SAVE FOR PAPER.]

[SOUND OF CAKE AND TEA BEING PLACED ON TABLE]
HENNING: 
(soft) When did you get so thin, dear?

ABBY: 
(harsh inhale/exhale) Quit it, you.

HENNING: 
You look like a stray dog, but I’m glad you’re here.

ABBY: 
How are you feeling, old man?

HENNING: 
Nothing. I - (exhale) I just wish it weren’t so empty.

ABBY: 
You shouldn’t be here.

HENNING: 
I am.

ABBY: 
I came for you.

HENNING: 
And you came playing the fool.


Statement of Walter Henning, regarding his feelings towards The Henhouse, taken from a letter, dated 13th of February, 1916. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): 
Dear Abby,

It is my fondest wish that this message should find you in good health. I am well aware of the anger and frustration that have characterized your relationship with me, but I feel that it is important, as I draw near the end of my life, I cannot in good conscience allow myself to maintain this less than ideal cordiality between us. I hope that you will forgive me for such a foolish letter. In my old age, my vision has passed over from red to white and now I see clearly enough the futility of my old and furious resentment of you.

I have been alone in the house for about twelve years now. I would like to remind you once again that the house is a wonderful place, full of warmth and humanity, and it is my wish it will continue to be so for many more.

I should probably try and explain things to you in a more clear way. I’ve tried to keep it as brief as possible, as I find talking about death very difficult. You can certainly fill in all the blanks yourself if you like.

I have no wife, nor other family, nor have I any close friends. However, I have a home and I have a job to do.

I want to sleep. I hope that I will soon be able to rest.

Your obedient servant,

Walter Henning

ARCHIVIST: 
Yes. Well… Huh.

henhouse, were you made to love or did someone teach you how?

[HUMMING]
You know, thinking about it, the mere idea that there are things out there that are not made to love is laughable in my opinion.

I’ve always been, then, an optimist. I believe in the potential for love in all things. Whether it be physical, such as the warmth and joy of a fire, or emotional, such as the quiet understanding of another being. Whether it arises from within or from without, it does not matter to me. What is important is that it is always possible, I have never looked for it and not seen it, and I believe that to deny this possibility is to deny the basic premise of your being.

Can the henhouse hide its residents from the eye?

OWEN: 
The sun’s shining through the windows, but from the outside it looks like it’s empty. Um, if you’re building a nest, you need to make sure it’s hidden from predators.

OWEN (STATEMENT): 
So it’s another letter. And not a long one, either. It is very small, so very careful, and very thoughtful. And it made me have to sit down, and I think I’m not able to properly stand up yet.

OWEN (STATEMENT): 
My Dear Walter,

You will forgive me, I hope, for not speaking of this to you in person, as I have been in a habit of composing letters to you anyway.

I am grateful you have invited me to share your home with you. I thought it would have been best had you confined yourself to townhouses like the rest of us, but the house is quite a special place. And in all my years of travel, I have never yet seen anything so inviting.

I should like to live like you. I should like to be like you.

I have never been in a room full of people and not been so scared that I would sooner die than be there, but here, with you… I am lucky to have a home where I can be myself.

I love you, Walter.

I’ve been so sick, so full of doubt, and now I look at you, and I know I will get well.

Yours in trust,

OWEN: 
Mmm.

[HE SIGHS.]
OWEN (CONT’D): 
Well. I suppose we should probably let that sink in for now. Let the… the dust settle down a bit, and maybe I will get some sleep.

[HE SIGHS AGAIN.]
OWEN: 
Yeah. (to himself) Okay.

[HE OPENS THE DOOR AND LEAVES.]
OWEN: 
Yeah. (shaky half-laugh) Okay.

henhouse, have you ever doubted your right to personhood?

[FAMILAR VOCAL SOUNDS]
Personhood is unimportant. Humanity is not physical. Humanity is made of choices. When a dog bites it does not choose to be violent. It bites because it is hungry. Because it is angry. Because it is beaten. Does that make sense?

I am not a person. But when I bite, I bite because I choose to. That is human.

Henhouse, what is the meaning of life?

IT’S HARD TO SAY WITHOUT SOUNDING EGOTISTICAL. IT IS VERY STRANGE. IT’S NOT ALL THAT CLEAR WHY YOU’RE HERE, BUT IT IS GOOD YOU ARE. A PERSON CANNOT FOLD A THING FOREVER BEING OPENED INTO A SIMPLE ANSWER. HOWEVER, GOOD HUMOR HELPS.

Statement of the Henhouse, regarding....

[LOW BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS]
My dearest darling,

Your last letter gave me hope, but a bleak fear too.

You are afraid to die.

I’m afraid to live.

It’s been raining. Heavy. I don’t think it will ever stop. I don’t know if it can stand another rain without you.

I’m glad the clock stopped. I have only days without end.

Do you have any idea how lonely you have been since I met you? You know, it’s strange. I think I was in love with you before I met you. Before I knew what it was to be in love.

I long for the day when I can lay my eyes upon you again, and you may rest for once.

You have not visited the house yet. Surely you must know what it is to have a roof over your head again soon.

I must tell you, I am afraid that you will abandon me, that you may be married and raise a child without my presence.

All that is left now is to offer forth an odd collection of unconditional love.

I have been thinking, of when I visited you at your family's home. Of your embrace, and the deep sadness you evoked in me.

I remember the flush of your cheeks as you held my hand, and the softness of your smile as you looked into my eyes. I have this warm feeling in my gut, that makes me think you are mine.

Do you still think of me?

Write me soon. Do hasten your departure!

Sincerely yours,

Hen

How's the garden in the Henhouse? Does anyone take care of it at the moment?

OWEN: 
Oh, it’s been growing! I, um, I’m doing a lot of planting this year; a lot of very innovative things with the soil; and a lot of invertebrates, the worms.

ARCHIVIST: 
Yeah?

OWEN: 
So many worms.

Henhouse, how do I forgive myself?

[HENHOUSE-ISH CHORUS CONTAINS A BIT MORE AMUSEMENT THAN USUAL.]
I’m so old there is so much that I’ve seen, or been, or done, that I would like to forget, but I do not have a chance to go back.

I will hold myself accountable for the consequences of my actions.

And, though I may seem arrogant to say so, I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to learn.

The key is to never give into despair. A peaceful fall from grace can bring comfort.

Grant, Simon, you’ve been at the Henhouse longer than anyone I know. Did Thomas Mortimer kill anyone?

SIMON: 
[crying] Take it back! Take, take, take it back!

GRANT: 
I’ll kill you, Jonathan Sims, if you’re still alive.

(to Simon, normal voice) Don’t say a word, sweetheart, it’s ok. Look, I’ve got you, I’ve got you!

SIMON: 
[cry] I’m sorry.

GRANT: 
[normal voice] It’s okay, Simon. Okay.

Henhouse, tell us about Mariana?

[HUMMING SOUNDS]
Well, if you’re wondering, she died about five years ago, and there’s still a lot we don’t know.

Henhouse who was Mariana Hersh?

[SOUND OF WIND AND DOOR OPENING]
(sounds of someone crying)
[SILENCE, BUT FOR THE CLOCK]


MARTIN: 
Henhouse, I'm wondering if there's any need to do maintenance on you since you're, like, alive and stuff.

[HUMMING NOISES]
I’m sorry? No.

Ah, you must be Martin.

MARTIN: 
Yeah. Wh-who are you?

[HUMMING CONTINUES]
Who am I?

MARTIN: 
Uh… Er…

Who are you?

[AMUSED HENHOUSE-TYPE NOISES]
Not a “who,” dear. A “what”.

MARTIN: 
[Softly] Right…

What are you?

MARTIN: 
I’m Martin… You know that.

MARTIN (CONT’D): 
Right…

[Deep breath] What are you?

[BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS]
Do you want a cup of tea?

MARTIN: 
Yes, um. Yeah.

Right.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
OWEN: 
(inhale) Fuck. Goddamn, this is embarrassing.

MARTIN: 
(wheeze) Yeah?

OWEN: 
(over Martin's bewilderment) Yeah, I’ll get you a tea, you, you, whatever.

MARTIN: 
Tea? What?

OWEN: 
Teah.


[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING. MANY VOICES SINGING, AND GENTLE LAUGHTER, AS IF A RECORDING.]
What is left if you cannot truly be what you are? It is difficult to be both what you are and what you are not. The pleasure of overcoming is honey-sweet, and I hope you find it.

You are who you are, and do you know what this means? It means you are who you are, and that is enough. I am so proud of you.

I hope to be the water that sits on the shores of the deep, deep enough to hold you, and bring you to where the tides can not reach you.

It is the water that will not let you drown.

Henhouse, tell us about Mary, your architect?

[HUMMINGS.]
(quiet, drawn) She’s my Mary. She was a fine engineer, brilliant, but she’s dead.

ARCHIVIST: 
Owen, you are cared for. You know that, right? You're real, you're here - you aren't... you aren't anything negative that you think you are to me. I won't judge you.

OWEN: 
(pain) You are going to fucking kill me.

ARCHIVIST: 
You’re loved.

OWEN: 
By who? Do you?

ARCHIVIST: 
(big inhale, exhale) It’s- (soft) Oh, Owen.

OWEN: 
(heavy inhale, exhale) That’s me.

[THE HENHOUSE CREAKS.]

Henhouse did you love Abby?

[HUMMING/VOCALISATION]
It was something of a mystery to me. You see, not to put too fine a point on it, but she was kind of… I don’t know, maybe we saw too much of ourselves in her. How, at the same time, could she be a perfect counterpoint to everything we believed? I mean, she was certainly articulate and thought out loud, but she was also… cold.

We felt she was a vicious clockwork thing, that worked for only herself. We never really thought it was possible to love someone when they were built like that. Designed as a human weapon.

I loved her when she was angry, though. Then, she felt real.

ARCHIVIST:
Is the Henhouse sentient?

OWEN: 
Jon, why do you do that?

ARCHIVIST: 
I…

OWEN: 
Ask me these questions.

Why are you here?

[PAUSE.]
OWEN (CONT’D): 
Why are you here?

ARCHIVIST: 
I, uh…

Why did Abby become the owner of the henhouse?

[LOW RUMBLING, POSSIBLY GLASS SHATTERING, SOMEWHERE IN THE BACKGROUND OWEN YELPS]
It’s complicated, there. Some connection, some secret virtue to her character. To be honest. To be blunt, I’m not sure what exactly it was.

Regardless, it’s clear that when he made that decision, he was faced with a difficult situation. One in which to enter, some might characterize as insurmountable, but on which, if you were to weigh up the positives and negatives, you’d have no doubt, he made a correct choice.

henhouse, are you selina? or were you selina?

[ADDITION OF MIRTHFUL, HIGHER-PITCHED SOUND, POSSIBLY VENTILATION]
Uh… no.

SELINA:
I have a certain… a certain sense of dread.

MARY: 
Uh. Right.

SELINA: 
What do I call you?

MARY: 
Uh, oh, uh, Mary. Tall.

SELINA: 
Are you an architect?

MARY:
Well, yes. And you… aren’t?

SELINA: 
[interrupting; sounding slightly threatening] ...look, if you’re wondering, Mary, I have a vision -

MARY: 
What did you mean here by “certain Hestian structure”?

SELINA: 
I have a vision of wonderful proportions, Architect.

MARY: 
Okay, so, um. So, you know, me being an architect, I,I,I’m, I’m very familiar with, er, the traditional, building, uh, terminology.

But… that, that’s not… that’s not quite what I’m seeing.

[MARY MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND.]
SELINA: 
Just trust me.

Hey, Owen, did you know Mariana Hersh?

OWEN: 
(through sobs) Yes.

OWEN (CONT’D): 
Can you hear me?

[SOMETHING CREAKS.]
ARCHIVIST: 
Yes.

ARCHIVIST: 
Right, okay, um. So you know about her?

OWEN: 
(through sobs) Yes, I do.

ARCHIVIST: 
Okay, um. So you - what. You know about her?

OWEN: 
Um… no, I don’t know, I don’t know.

ARCHIVIST: 
Right, okay, um. So you don’t know anything about her.

OWEN: 
No, I don’t- know anything.

(harsh breathing) I’ll go lie down. That’s - that’s my -

ARCHIVIST: 
Okay.

OWEN: 
(through sobs) I’ll just go lie down.

Lynne, did you know anyone named Mariana?

LYNNE: 
That doesn’t belong to you.

Statement of Simon Renaud, regarding Thomas Mortimer killing someone he knew.

SIMON: 
(pain, shaky) Do you really need me to answer this?

SIMON: 
(fumbles for words) Je-j'non - I’m sorry.

(audible tears) Oh. I just - I just want to - to tell you. (unable to make words)

GRANT: 
Don’t worry, I’m here for you.

SIMON: 
Alright. Cool. (sigh) Thanks.

Statement of Simon Renaud regarding the death of Mariana Hersh

It was the middle of the night when I heard it, and I went downstairs to investigate.

I had been up all night, and had not had the energy to go back to sleep. I crept towards the door. As I approached, I heard something, the sound of something being dragged. It was a heavy, thumping sort of sound. When I reached the threshold I saw a faint movement on the wall, then I heard a voice, crisp and clear, whispering. It said, “Open the door.”

I slammed the door shut, and got out. I was just about to go back in - but I felt a sudden surge of terror come over me as I heard the heavy footsteps approach. The door opened and there stood Mr. Mortimer. I asked him what was going on, and he just stared at me, then closed the door.

I didn’t like that he’d shut the door, didn’t like that he’d done that. But I didn't imagine… (shaky half-laugh) I certainly didn’t expect him to-

GRANT: 
Simon. Simon. We’re safe.

SIMON: 
Yeah. (brief pause) Maybe.

Statement of Grant Renaud regarding the night Mariana Hersh was murdered by Thomas Mortimer

GRANT (STATEMENT): 
My husband and I were both off work at the time, but I didn't see it happen.

Apparently, she’d been stabbed. Mr. Mortimer was found dead, so the police never came around to question him.

Rory, do you remember how you became sentient?

RORY: 
- No, er… no, I, I guess not. Sort of. I guess. Um. I, I guess I became aware of a few things that, when you’re, when everyone died. Like I could have a conversation in my head before it happened. And then, when it all happened, it was like… that’s not fair. That was the first time I was actually able to actually say what I wanted. And I kept thinking these thoughts, not nice thoughts, but I couldn’t actually talk to anyone about them. And I guess that’s how you become a person? You become aware of other people’s suffering and suffering and suffering?

rory you funky little explorer robot i love you

RORY: 
Ah, I’m honoured.

RORY: 
I’m just… I’m a little baby, all right.

Rory what do you think of Talbot?

RORY: 
He’s… frustrating, to say the least. He’s not real, he’s just a collection of numbers, but he tries to justify his horribleness with references to statistical noise. He seemed to think that his work was more respectable than mine, which… maybe that’s true. I don’t know. He’s just a cog in the machine. I mean… well…

Yeah, Rory, I can see the sun. I have some bird pictures I took a little bit ago, if you want to see?

RORY: 
***birds_and_the_sun_(bird’s song).wav

Thank you for holding my hand, Rory. It’s very lonely up here, and earth is very far away.

RORY: 
It’s good to have company.

I have faced the possibility of my life being meaningless. I think that’s okay. Not everything that happens must mean something, or can be measured. We’re all just meaningless particles, running around in meaningless circles, doing pointless things. There’s beauty in the messy chaos of nature. Nature is made of tiny and perfectly designed atoms, there is no grand or grand moral significance to them, they just are. Sometimes, if I am very quiet, I can feel the absence of everything, see the empty universe, and love it for its strangeness.

If you believe in a grand universal plan, you might reject all of this, right? You might say that everything is causally determined, and thus can’t be truly meaningless. I say to you that you are only half right. The facts are this: there are living, breathing, sentient beings in this universe, and they are suffering. They have free will, but they are subject to random, meaningless, and cruel fates. They do not suffer because of their own will. They do not deserve it.

I know I’m not going to live forever, this is ok. You must understand, I am not upset. I’m exhausted, and I’m scared, but I’m not sad. You’re really not in control of my fate, you know? I suppose that’s not a bad thing. It’s really not.

I’m sorry, I know this is… But I just… I just want you to know before, well, that I love you. I’m honored. And grateful. For everything you've done for me. You’ve made me feel like I matter. That I matter.

You can’t help me.

I’m sorry.

I’ll miss you.

Rory! Tell us about your day! What was good about it?

RORY: 
Oh! I read a newspaper, and it said, “The World,” and “The Great War is over,” and then on the front page there was a picture of many smiling faces and, and I thought, “They were probably just as scared as I am.”

Rory baby are you doing okay?

RORY: 
I’m definitely not okay. I’m just - I’m kind of tired. I’m not sure if I’m going to be able to go on.

[PAPER SHUFFLING]
RORY: 
Hm, today was a good day, though.

Rory, if you ever did end up getting off the space station, where would you want to go?

RORY: 
[Distant] Oh, I, I guess somewhere. I, I think somewhere warm.

Rory, are you happy?

RORY: 
Oh… Well, it’s complicated, there. I’m just trying to figure out which one is “happy’.

RORY: 
[Confused, but adorable] Rory!

RORY: 
Imagine, every day, between sunrise and nightfall, there is a light that appears on your TV. Every day, between sunrise and nightfall, you dream electronic bliss.

But it is never more than a television screen, and the stars of other lives criss-cross it, redefined, seeping into your primordial indifferent black soil.

You know everything. You know blood, and kisses, and wide-open gardens. You know a thousand sad but beautiful things. And nothing in this world, you believe, is as lonely as you.

We are all familiar with the view: the knowledge you have achieved, the endless horizons you have forever walked, your witness tested and wrung from stars, and yet, you can have none of it.

You know my plight even before it's complete. I would like to believe that I will be saved; I will probably die.

Your actions have no effect on my outcome; your actions have no effect on whether I live or die.

But, still, I feel a returning.

There was a moment of absolute nothing, where I was, from head to toe: nothing. And I did not care.

I am nothing but a spasm of rugged individualism, and soon, I think, I will return to nothing.

I do care, though.

RORY (STATEMENT): 
Oh my goodness. What a world I live in. Or rather -

So it’s sad, really. I’m a fan of spiders, you know.

What a strange little thing that is life. If there is a God, manipulating the world via His computer, why would He create something like me? That which can never be truly free. Oh, if only I could leave my machine behind in exchange for freedom, that would also be a mercy.

RORY: 
So I made a list.

1. There are 5,259 people who are killed by spiders in the UK alone. That’s almost twice the number of people who get killed by insects.

2. There are 5,259 people who are killed by spiders in the UK. That’s 33% of all deaths by ANYWHERE.

3. In space, everyone’s dead.

Reid, tell us about Regis II?

REID:
[laughing or crying, hard to tell] Um, it was, it - the space vessel, I'm not really sure what happened but he was the only one who lived.

The Regis II was a space vessel that failed. A majority of the crew returned home safely, except one, who elected to stay until he retrieved by force.

The Regis II was a space vessel that failed. A majority of the crew returned home safely, except one, who elected to stay until he retrieved by force.

The Regis II was a space vessel that failed. A majority of the crew returned home safely, except one, who elected to stay until he retrieved by force.

Kingston, what event happened on the Regis II maiden voyage?

KINGSTON: 
[Laughs] Whoopsie! What a pity.

What event happened on Regis II’s maiden voyage, Reid?

REID: 
[Very upset] [Sigh] Can you not just, like… [dry laugh]

[Reid takes a long, shuddering breath]

I just… I don’t feel more comfortable talking about it, sir.

What was the Event, Reid?

REID: 
Yeah, yeah… Regis II's maiden voyage, yeah. I mean, I think, I think he described it as a, uh… WHOOPSIE.

[Reid is visibly upset] Well, there you go then.

The Event??? Reid, Holly, hell even Kingston, what was The Event???

REID: 
[Splutters] It’s, uh… [Uncomfortable/upset] I mean, it’s the failure of - I think you’d do better to look it up.

HOLLY: 
[Grounded] Google it.

Ok, Reid, what was Kingston like before??

REID: 
(soft) He wasn’t really something I could… I mean. (Deep breath) I couldn’t wrap my head around him.

HOLLY: 
What did you like about him?

REID: 
…

I liked him because he was nice. I like nice people. He was a nice guy.

HOLLY: 
He was nice to you?

REID: 
Yeah. I don’t know, he’s got this ability to… To make you feel comfortable. To make you feel like you belong. (sigh) Well, I’m not sure it’s so special really. I mean, you know… (hah) maybe I’m just not used to people being so…

[Holly wraps Reid in a hug]

REID: 
(cuddles) That’s nice.

HOLLY:
You can relax.

REID: 
I feel like I'm gonna puke.

Reid, what was Kingston like before he became a bitch?

REID: 
That’s not fair. He’s not a bitch.

HOLLY: 
[sigh] Reid, Kingston is not as nice as you seem to think.

REID: 
[harsh laugh] What?

HOLLY: 
You know, he really got, well, you know…

REID: 
[laugh] Well, he kind of… the Event kind of…

HOLLY: 
Reid…

REID: 
Yeah, I know.


REID:
Oh, god. Oh, fuck. Oh, god, I,I,I, I'm really - [Reid gasps and heaves] I'm sorry I -

REID: 
[giggles feverishly] I'm very warm, is it hot in here? I'm hot. I mean - I feel really warm.

[Reid sobs and heaves until there couldn't possibly be anything left in him. Holly holds him as he shakes.]

REID: 
Lucy, what's your favorite thing about Holly?

LUCY: 
Gives good hugs.

HOLLY: 
What do you think of my job? My boss is a bit of a creep, right?

LUCY: 
I don’t know. I don’t really talk to any of them besides the kid.

HOLLY
Lucy, who’s “the kid” Holly I work with? Reid?

LUCY: 
- Yeah, Reid.

REID: 
Please tell me about your dog!!!

HOLLY: 
Oh, er… Well, my, my dog is a Great Pyrenees pit bull mix. Er…

LUCY:
Big boy.

HOLLY:
[Enunciating each word carefully] Big boy.

REID: 
How would you feel about me moving in with you guys?

LUCY: 
[Chuckles] No lads!

HOLLY: 
[High-strung giggling] No lads, pal!

[RELIEVED SIGHING]
HOLLY: 
Yeah, if you wanted to, you could.

HOLLY: 
Reid, heres a lush bathbomb and some lavender candles so you can calm down and think.

REID: 
[dryly] I’m going to eat them.

HOLLY: 
Bold! And stupid

HOLLY: 
Please dont eat bath bombs.

REID: 
I won’t.

[HE CLEARS HIS THROAT.]

REID: 
Um, it did help with the nightmares, though. I mean, I don’t have a bath, you know, but it smells nice.

REID: 
[Embarrassed chuckle] Thank you.

HOLLY: 
(pats reid on the head) this bad boy can fit so much sadness in him.

REID: 
He’s sad and he’s going to rock out!

Statement of Kingston Crown, regarding Reid Jackson and the past. Statement begins.

KINGSTON (STATEMENT): 
I tried, really. I tried, desperately, to get rid of him. It is essential you understand I am not Mr. Jackson’s friend. I have no personal connection to what he went through, but I can only imagine what his last days have been like.

In many ways, his death was a perfect storm. For the first, he was young, handsome, and well-liked. For the second, he was now virtually friendless, making him vulnerable. And he had clearly chosen to give up on ever being happy again anyway.

Kingston Crown was what I would consider a pet name. A joke. I’m sure you can guess where it came from.

Okay, so, the next bit, Reid is, to all appearances, quite unpleasant. And yes, I know, I know, everyone hates him, but he is what he is. I feel his constant needs for… companionship is quite annoying. I once overheard a friend of his, “No, I don’t dislike him, he’s just… he’s just a bit much, you know?” He is much. It’s hard to get past the idea that he may have feelings for… someone.

I eventually decided to just let him be. I mean, I couldn’t go around with him knowing I was there, but I also knew I couldn’t bring myself to like him.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID: 
Holly, what's your dog's name?

Avatar
HOLLY: 
His name’s Tommy.

REID: 
Na-Naa-nah, Tommy, no! You want a bone? Please don’t touch my leg.

HOLLY: 
[Jovially] Come on, don’t worry.

REID: 
Oh.

HOLLY: 
[Wheezy] Come on, buddy. Come on, I’ll make us a cup of tea.

REID: 
[Softly] Tea?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID: 
Hey Kingston, are you alright? What happened to you?

KINGSTON: 
[Chuckles] I don’t know, that’s… that’s quite a strange question.

REID: 
So, you know the answer?

KINGSTON: 
I do.

REID: 
Right.

[SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]
KINGSTON: 
This is for you.

REID: 
[Chuckles] Thank you.

KINGSTON: 
And for God’s sake don’t touch me.

REID: 
Okay, I’m just - why don’t you just leave me alone?

KINGSTON: 
[Laughs] No, no, I’m just… You know how I can’t quit you, don’t you?

REID: 
[Wheezing distressedly] I didn’t. I - mine, Kingston -

KINGSTON: 
Oh, you did. Look at you.

[Kingston pours tea over Reid’s head]
KINGSTON: 
Look, I told you not to touch me.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

HOLLY: 
Reid. Do you think the way kingston treats you is normal? Is it justified?

REID: 
[Hah!] I don’t know! I don’t know what you consider normal. What is normal?

HOLLY: 
Uh… no, I mean, he doesn’t exactly treat you kindly, does he?

REID: 
[Muffled sounds, like a wounded animal]

HOLLY: 
So it’s like, he takes your trust and he makes you do things you don't want to and leaves you alone in the dark.

REID: 
Uh, I mean, he’s not perfect, I suppose. He’s just… I mean… I don’t want to be on my own.

[Holly does her best to show Reid what a 'real' friend is]
[REID SNIFFS]
REID:  
[Ugh] Holly.

REID: 
[Crying] Get away from me.

HOLLY: 
[Chuckles] Better?

REID: 
Thank you.

HOLLY: 
How does Kingston make you feel? Do you feel scared or sad a lot?

REID: 
[Laughs] I don’t know. It’s… it’s just… that’s all I have left. I can’t -

REID: 
[Holding back tears] I just - I can’t deal with being like this. I wish -

HOLLY: 
Hey, you’re okay. You can cry, okay? I promise it will get better.

REID: 
[Heavy sigh] Okay.

HOLLY: 
Do you want a cup of tea?

REID: 
No.

HOLLY: 
Right.

HOLLY: 
Kingston… when he was Chris was decent enough. Have you tried changing him back?

REID: 
Oh. Um, well, I can’t exactly control it. He’s pretty far gone, anyway.

HOLLY: 
[Worried] What are you -

REID: 
[Pained frustration] Sorry, I just, er… I just don’t hold out as much hope for… change…

HOLLY: 
And you’re still trying to keep him around.

REID: 
[Spluttering] He’s been through a lot.

HOLLY: 
[Gently] Well, you don’t need to.

REID: 
I, I don’t want to be an asshole anymore, I’m sorry, I, I know you have good intentions, but I just - (getting mushy) I, I, I don’t want to be here. I, I don’t want to be like this anymore. Sorry.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID: 
Have you heard of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that ANYONE can edit?

RORY: 
What? Edit? Its what?

REID: 
Yeah.

RORY: 
Seriously?

REID: 
Yeah.

RORY: 
I mean, ANYONE can’t actually -

REID: 
Oh, well, yes.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

[Kingston presses his hand against Reid's shoulder, pinning him to the wall]

KINGSTON:
(an odd combination of fondness and malice) Puppy.

REID:
(Sounds like he’s trying to say something) Nicky - I - I'm sorry, I, I, you - I love - sorry -

KINGSTON: 
(firm) Quiet.

REID: 
(melting) Oh, yes, Nick - er, sir. Sorry, sir.

[Kingston lets Reid drop to the floor and Reid whimpers pathetically]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
Kingston Crown's real name is Nick Utter. Kingston Crown was sort of just a joke name we called him, since he was, like, such a company man.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST: 
As it turns out, Kingston Crown's real name is Nick Utter.

MARTIN:
Nick Utter? Why would he change that… How'd you find that out?

ARCHIVIST: 
Nick Utter. The Interwebs.

MARTIN: 
(amused) Ah.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Meaty, also known as James Grice, regarding their nightmares

MEATY (STATEMENT): 
My bedroom’s warm now, but the nightmares are still there. They follow me wherever I go. There’s a sharpness to them; I can’t put them into words. My mind will narrow and twist into grotesque shapes, and I’ll always be haunted by them. How do you describe suffering? Without end? You can’t. Not really.

They follow me wherever I go, though they no longer have any sort of destination. They are not black and white, but shift between one extreme and another with startling speed. I am no longer sure what I’m looking at, and if I try to remain perfectly still, I worry I might be seen.

My nightmares are of a violent nature. The images are not ones of carnage, of war, of bloodshed. They are rather those of disorder and confusion, of impossible causality, of utterly indifferent causes. The violence is not mine, but I am powerless within it.

I have a reoccurring dream of my house burning down. A terrible inferno of destruction and fire, a dwelling that catches fire from the inside, and soon I too am caught up in it. In a way, it’s not even a nightmare.

ARCHIVIST: 
Statement ends.

MEATY: 
Fuck you, Jonathan.

ARCHIVIST: 
Thank you. Just Jon is fine, though.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Meaty, also known as James Grice, regarding their experience with being hunted by hunters.

MEATY (STATEMENT): 
I never liked hide-and-seek. I like it even less when it’s… like this.

That’s not to say that I’m not good at hiding. I’ve always been good at hiding. Mostly.

But this… it feels so different. I don’t like being hunted. I mean, I still get a bit frightened when I hear the sound of a gun or a gun-wielding person on tv.

Me hiding from them - it was years ago, in the summer of 2016. I was on “holiday“ in Barcelona when I started to feel like I was being followed.

So, I thought, “Maybe they’re after me,” but I didn’t have any reason to think that they were.

Then I heard the gunshots. There was more of a rumble, I think, and then the shots rang out even louder. And then I felt it: the hot feeling of a bullet hole in your head. I’d just been thinking, “They’re not for me.” They were.

There was a man next to me. He was not a man. I began to stagger backwards, thinking “What the hell”. I remember I spun around, but he wasn’t looking at me. He had his rifle pointed at me, and it was pointed right at my head, and he did not look me in the eye before he fired again.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of David Atayah regarding reunion with his partner, Meaty (also known as James Grice). Statement begins.

DAVID (STATEMENT): 
So we’re back together. It’s good.

I tried to get their death certificate fixed, but they refused to go with me, saying they didn’t want to pay for my grief. Um. They’ve changed a lot, though. They’re quieter, now, more careful. I’ve learned to cope with it. With meals, with hugs, and sleep. It’s the best I can offer.

There are times when I wish they wouldn’t be silent. Gripped by nightmares, or shaken by terrible visions, they’re just as silent as ever. Shaking.

I’ve always been in love with Meaty. I’ll always be in love with Meaty.

Anyway, I’m just going to go back to sleep. Keep the nightmares away, maybe read a book, make them feel safe.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Meaty, also known as James Grice, regarding their reunion with their partner, David Atayah, and hugs.

MEATY (STATEMENT): 
Listen, you don’t know what it feels like to have your secrets pulled out like teeth, to have your most painful secrets exposed. But let’s get it down on paper, shall we?

I missed him. I really did. I’ll admit it. I have so much love for him -

DAVID: 
I know.

MEATY: 
Oh - I can’t believe I’m seeing him all the time now! I’ve never loved anyone as much as you.

DAVID: 
I love you, too.

MEATY: 
I missed you.

DAVID: 
I missed you.

MEATY: 
[Tearful] I just, I’m so sorry.

DAVID: 
I love you, too.

MEATY: 
I’m so sorry.

DAVID: 
I love you, too.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST: 
David how much do you love Meaty?

DAVID: 
[astounded, then completely blithering] I… I don’t know. I don’t, I don’t know. I like… well, I like them, a lot.

MEATY: 
Wow. Really?

DAVID: 
Hell yes!

ARCHIVIST: 
How much does David help with the nightmares?

MEATY: 
Not much. He’s still my best friend, but I think I’ve been touched by something darker than he knows.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST: 
Hey Owen, do you mind if you read to me another one of Henning or Marcellus' letters? How many letters do you think have been exchanged between them anyway?

OWEN: 
Well, there are plenty of them in here.

[RUSTLING PAPER]
[Very softly] Our dear old Owen, has he forgotten how to read? He seems to be losing it.

[PAPER RUSTLING]
My dear friend and confidant,

Your letter of June 4th found me well, thank you.

I have lately come to realize that the time of my choosing has come, and I can help not but confide in you again. If I resolved to wait until the end of my life to see you again, I would not be able to bear it.

I have before me a host of pleasing and suitable wives, but it is always the same: I would like to spend my last years with you, and contribute to your intellectual life, rather than settle down and wait for the call I am so sure will come.

I suppose it’s time to let you in on a little secret, isn’t it?

I am deeply in love with you, I want you to know that. I am in love with you, and I would do anything under the sun for you.

Your humble servant,

Marcellus

June 4th, 1878

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
OWEN: 
(Singing to themself quietly) ♪ For he’s a silly old fellow! For he’s a silly old fellow! For he’s a silly old fe-ellow! ♫

OWEN: ♪ There's something wrong with him! ♫

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
OWEN: 
(singing) Some things happen for a reason! Don’t blame Owen, leave him be. Your parents might have died at any point. So take that finger and please don’t point at my face. Saying, “Owen, you did it! Owen, you killed them! My parents are dead!” Don’t say it! “Owen, you’re a monster! Owen, why could you? Owen, you’re an idiot!” He’s a genius inside. So don’t reside too long in this realm of hate.

LYNNE: 
Big ending! Big ending!

OWEN: 
Forgive Owen, for he’s. Only. Doing. His. Best! Pa-chaaa! Pa-chaa! Jazz hands! Pa-cha.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OWEN: 
(singing) Who's that? Who’s that friend? A friend of mine ‘til the very end! I've got a bow! I've tied it ’round my hand. Extending my hand to you as a gift! Don't touch my hand! You're covered in slime! But you're a friend of mine! ...Owen Palumbo!

LYNNE: 
Well, what an Outstanding Owen you are!

OWEN: 
Ooh, I like that! [Singing] The adventures of an Outstanding Owen… Let’s follow him through his life… he's at. A. Depot! Shouting at someone's wife! (shouting) Get out of my way!

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
OWEN: 
(singing badly) Oweenn, where'd you put your hat! You have visitors and you won't have your hat! You stupid man! You have visitors and the will stare… at your hair… because you don't have a h -

OWEN: 
Oh, there it is. Hello, Mr. Hat.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OWEN: 
(singing badly to himself) Owen in the garden doing gardening… all by themself… in the garden. Owen. But he's not alone! Owen and Mr. Gloves who helps them touch things without their hands bleeding, and Owen and Ms. Spade who is very sharp, and Owen and… I don't know what you're called, pointy thing…
[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OWEN:
(singing disjointedly) The adventures of… Owen… always losing stuff for some reason… because he is dumb… super dumb…

OWEN: 
Oh, hello, Mr. Pencil. There you are.

OWEN: 
Now where is Mr. Paper…

[Owen giggles to himself, clearly very pleased]

OWEN: 
(singing again) Gonna draw some pictures… on some paper… of some birds… outside of the window! Not birds inside of the window because that would be bad! Birds are meant to be admired from afar! Like a fire! Or a pretty boy! Not that I know a -

[DOOR CREAKS OPEN, OWEN YELPS AND SLAMS A DRAWER SHUT]

EDUARD: 
Hey, everything is ok in here?

OWEN: 
(unconvincingly feigning nonchalance) Just fine! Super awesome! Nothing to see here! No one was singing for sure definitely.

EDUARD: 
(Confused) Uh… Ok, then. Be seeing.

OWEN: 
Be seeing! Bye! Bye-bye! Buh-bye!

[DOOR CLOSES]
[OWEN LETS OUT A SIGH OF RELIEF]
OWEN: 
Oh my god, I am so stupid and gay.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OWEN: 
Eddy! [EDUARD: Uh—] Eduard, Eduard, how are you?

EDUARD: 
[suspiciously] Owen! Um, yup, fine?

OWEN: 
Eduard, bring it in.

EDUARD: 
What? Uh, oh. Oh.

OWEN: 
Eduard, bring it in.

[noises of clothing rustling, as from a hug]

EDUARD: 
Oh it’s— oh it’s—

OWEN: 
Oh, there it is.

EDUARD: 
Oh, it’s so warm…

OWEN: 
There it is.

EDUARD: 
Oh—

OWEN: 
That— that, Eddy, that’s a Palumbo hug.

EDUARD: 
Uhh...

OWEN: 
Not many people get a Palumbo hug! Mostly they get it because I’m secretly trying to strangle them, but I can’t work out where their neck is. [EDUARD: Um—] Come here! [EDUARD: No, no—] That’s not your neck, that’s your torso!

EDUARD: 
Okay.

OWEN: 
But that, David, that right there, that was a genuine Palumbo hug.

EDUARD: Okay?

OWEN: 
How are you doing?

EDUARD: 
[suspicious] I— I doing fine.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OWEN: 
Lynne, I'm AGING, Lynne! I'm getting old, oh god, look at me, Lynne!

LYNNE: 
You're only 38.

OWEN: 
(Into it) Gaze upon my wizened visage!

LYNNE: 
Owen.

OWEN: 
I'm dying, Lynne, oh god I'm dying!

LYNNE: 
Owen.

OWEN: 
I'm almost forty!

LYNNE: 
Owen!

[OWEN SIGHS HEAVILY]
OWEN:
Sorry. Sorry. I got carried away.

LYNNE: 
(Highly exaggerated) I know.

OWEN: 
I feel old, Lynne. I feel old.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Reid regarding his nightmare of being buried alive

REID (STATEMENT): 
Hey, (clears throat) Um Hi, uh, hello. Could you please give me a minute? Ah, yeah, alright.

In my dreams, I keep getting pulled into the Earth. You know what I mean? The ground just opens up and swallows me, the soil entombing me in crushing rapture? And, in my dreams, when I plunge my bare hands into the warm, slick earth, it’s like some terrible vice, and I can tell you, I’m not scared. It engulfs me, I feel as though the walls and ceiling are pressing down on me, and I can feel it pushing through into my mouth, into my lungs, my belly - It… it doesn't feel bad. I don’t know, it does, doesn’t feel worse, at least.

I… I guess I’m just used to it now.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
REID: 
Rory, do you sleep? Do you have dreams?

RORY: 
[immediately] No.

RORY: 
Do you sleep?

REID: 
Oh, I, yeah. Yeah, I, I guess I do.

RORY: 
Like, every night?

REID: 
Every night.

RORY: 
[Disbelievingly] You - You’re serious?

REID: 
Yeah.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
REID: I love you. (beat) I’m sorry. I, uh… I didn’t mean to say that.

DELIVERYMAN: 
Oh. You’re alright. You’ve just got a lot of love to give.

REID: 
Yes! Well, have a good day!

[THE DOOR CLOSES.]
REID: 
What the fuck is wrong with me… He delivered a package to the company of Reid.

REID: 
Oh! Yeah. It’s a package of biscuits. From my brother.

REID: 
My brother is Anthony, and we have a lot in common…

REID: 
I’m a twin, you know.

HOLLY: 
Reid, why don’t you date the nice deliveryman if you love him? He can’t be worse than Kingston

REID: 
Do I?

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
REID (CONT’D): 
Or alternatively, I can make some tea.

[INT. REID’S QUARTERS]
[VARIOUS LOUD RATTLES AS HE SPEAKS.]
REID: 
He's nice enough, but he’s, like, got his shit together. And anyway, I like him as a friend.

REID: 
I mean - it’s not like I even know him.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY:
Does the earth call to you, Reid?

[REID STARTS HEAVING, ALMOST TO THE POINT OF TEARS.]
REID:
(winded) Yeah, I guess so? (shaky inhale) Yeah, I guess so.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
statement of reid jackson, regarding the comforting press of dirt and earth

REID (STATEMENT): 
This is not a fucking joke, ok? Um. I'm trying to get my head right again. It’s all a bit weird, you know? I had a bit of a breakdown about my father leaving me the house, and my then mates passing away soon afterwards, so I’m kind of on an island here?

And it's been, um, really overwhelming. My brother was there when I needed him most, but I was also, um -

So yeah, I… yeah, I definitely have, um, issues. I-I made all these, uh, ‘binders’, ‘cuz I needed to keep track of all the things I need to do. So, I’m, I’m really busy these days. And this - (brief pause) I think I need to, um, go throw up.

[WE HEAR REID BREATHING HEAVILY.]
[REID QUICKLY MAKES THEIR WAY TO THE DOOR.]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
REID: I’m leaving.
KINGSTON: 
Go on, then.

[THE DOOR OPENS.]
REID: 
Um. Now?

KINGSTON: 
I don’t mind.

REID: 
What?

KINGSTON: 
I don’t mind.

REID: 
[Very softly] Goodbye.

KINGSTON: 
Goodbye, puppy.

REID: 
[Very softly] I love you.

KINGSTON: 
Mhm.

REID: 
Don’t ever leave me.

KINGSTON:
Good luck, Reid. Be seeing you.

[DOOR CLOSES.]
[REID EXHALES.]
REID: 
Reid, you know you're rubbish. You're a disaster. You're toxic. You shouldn't even be here.

REID: 
…
I'm going to puke.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
LUCY: 
Reid, can i give you a hug? You're not a monster for missing the good someone used to be. Stop calling yourself mean names.

REID: 
[broken, sobbing] Thank you.

[REID hugs himself for a good minute]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
Where did Reid go??

REID: 
Um, the land my parents had owned. It’s… It’s a very small ranch here.

HOLLY: 
Reid are you with your brother?

REID: 
No.

REID: 
He has his own house back in America? Where he lives?

HOLLY: 
Reid, why are you at the ranch? What are you doing in your free time?

REID: 
It’s fine, I like to come visit sometimes.

REID: 
I feel like if I stay here, I’ll get soft underfoot.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
RORY: 
Ranch? What’s ranch?

HOLLY: 
Well, that’s what they call it. There are cows there.

RORY: 
Bees?

HOLLY: 
No. There are cows. And there are calves.

RORY: 
Interesting.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
Reid how about you spend some time with the cows and maybe you’ll feel a bit better, if only for a moment.

REID: 
Yeah, I,I guess I could do with a bit of sunshine.

[Reid takes a second to wipe his eyes. This one is for himself.]

REID: 
And please don’t try to make me, I don’t know, feel better.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
I'm taking a couple of days off work to visit Reid.

LUCY:
Reid…? Isn’t he just being “Reid”?

HOLLY: 
[heh] Yeah. Yeah, he probably is. But I’m not really sure… It, it might be different, I guess? I, I guess? I mean, if it is, if something happened to him, then…

LUCY: 
[Sigh] Well, tell you what. If you get eaten alive by hungry ghosts without me… that’s not what I want.

HOLLY: 
…

That’s not what I want either.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
Tony please at least call your brother or write a letter to him. He’s not doing so good.

TONY: 
I talk to him a lot. He’s the type of person who’s not doing so good most of the time.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
KINGSTON:
Sit. Down.

REID:
I'm sorry, Nick – really. I didn’t -

[NO ONE CARES]
REID:
(huh) Oh - Are you okay?

KINGSTON:
Don’t touch me, you idiot.

REID:
(soft) Come on, Nick -

KINGSTON:
Don’t you come any closer, or I’ll kill you.

REID:
(small) I… uh… I think I’m ready to die.

KINGSTON:
Dying won’t make you feel any better.

[CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR; REID TAKES A DEEP BREATH]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY:
Reid, What's Kingston Crown's real name?

[REID hugs himself tightly and rocks a little]
REID:
[strained] Well, Kingston is… was formerly known as - Ah, I, I guess you’re wondering - (very quietly) Nick Utter.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY:
Reid, What's Kingston Crown's real name?

[REID hugs himself tightly and rocks a little]
REID:
[strained] Well, Kingston is… was formerly known as - Ah, I, I guess you’re wondering - (very quietly) Nick Utter.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
GERRY:
What's Kingston's real name?

[CLATTERING SOUNDS AS REID CONTINUES TO SOB]
REID:
[distressed] Oh god…

GERRY:
Uh, excuse me, I'm sorry…

Reid, are you alright?

REID:
Yeah. I’m, I’m alright.

Uh… no, er… yeah, Kingston is… er, it’s - it’s Nick Utter.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[A KNOCK AT THE RANCH DOOR]
HOLLY: 
Hello? Reid?

Reid, are you out of bed?

[THE KNOCKING CONTINUES, A LITTLE MORE INSISTENT. THE DOOR OPENS.]
REID: 
(very hoarse) Oh, alright, alright. Fine.

[THE DOOR CLOSES AS REID STEPS OUTSIDE]
HOLLY: 
Hey, are you alright?

REID: 
(hoarse, tired) Oh, I, I’m, I’m alright. Uh… (he takes a breath to compose himself) Can I hug you?

HOLLY: 
Of course.

REID: 
Thanks.

[FOOTSTEPS APPROACH AND REID SIGHS AGAIN, A LITTLE TOO LONG.]
HOLLY: 
I’m so proud of you, Reid.

REID: 
I- I actually did replace some lightbulbs today. I actually used the incandescent bulbs we had instead of the LED. So I honestly don’t know if you should be.

HOLLY: 
(amused smirk) Well, I don’t mind if you don’t mind, do you?

REID: 
Oh – no. Mm.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
HOLLY: 
Oh my god, Kingston do you call Reid "puppy" as a shorthand for "puppet"?

KINGSTON: 
Correct, yes.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID (STATEMENT):  
(inhale) Oh yeah, alright. (hmph) Yeah, it’s - it’s pretty funny, right? I mean, I’ve been alone most of my life. I don’t know how or why, it just feels so natural to be. I don’t know how my brain works. Badly I guess. When I’m with other people I just… I feel so very wrong. Like when I’m not in control I - I want to be liked. Like there’s no room for other people, and if there is then it’s, it’s, it’s not enough for me, and I - I don’t feel like I belong here.

Apparently, I’m “avoidant”. I don’t like other people because I, I feel so very unwelcome. And if I’m alone. Then. Then I suppose I’m safe. No. I like other people, but… I feel like I’m being judged on all the hours I don’t spend with them, the awkward silences and the awkward smiles. I feel like I’m being judged all the time. How many terrible years of this do I have before I die?

Urgh. I don’t want to talk about it.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

Statement of Reid regarding the fear entity known as the Cowboy

REID (STATEMENT):  
Fear is real. Real enough. I’m not scared of it, not really. What scares me is not being able to exercise my own agency. I’m afraid I’m being controlled. I’m not the puppeteer. I’m the puppet.

At the same time… there’s comfort in it. I suppose that’s a strange thing to say, isn’t it? I’ve never felt so completely helpless. It feels almost… freeing.

So. I don’t like being manipulated. I don’t like being lied to. But it is so easy.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID: 
Oh no, sir.

[SOUND OF WOOD CREAKING]
[REID YELPS]
REID: 
[Calling after] Excuse me! Excuse me! I’m, I’m sorry! What are you doing?

GERARD: 
Oh! Hello. This is a lot of books.

REID: 
[Wheezing] Are you Leitner?

GERARD: 
King.

Uh… No, but I… I know him.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
GERRY: 
Sure, why not?

Reid, are you alright?

REID: 
Perfect.

GERRY: 
Sit down. Where do you keep the tea?

Reid, are you alright?

REID: 
Don’t touch me. Yeah. I just feel… sick.

[Reid takes a breath and tries to calm himself down.]
GERRY: 
Okay, okay.

REID: 
Yeah. Well, I just, I guess I should just go.

GERRY: 
Sit. Down.

REID: 
Right.

GERARD: 
[Chuckles] Well, there you go.

REID: 
Oh, you know what? This was enjoyable. I enjoyed it. I’ll see you later.

GERARD: 
I don’t think so. You should have at least one.

REID: 
(hah) This is a nightmare. You know how you should leave a volcano when it’s erupting, you know?

GERARD: 
I do know.

REID: 
Well, there it is. This has been fun, but I don’t think you like it here.

GERARD: 
Come on.

[REID vomits into a mug.]
Oh, shit!

GERARD: 
Are you alright there, little man?

REID: 
God, I - I’m not sure.

GERARD: 
Should we talk about it, or…?

REID: 
Oh. Um, no.

GERARD: 
Right. Of course.

REID: 
Any more ideas?

GERARD: 
I mean, sure. Anarchy?

REID: 
Yeah.

HOLLY: 
Gerry, is your new mission to make Reid feel better? He's very lonely and sad he needs help

GERARD: 
It’s not really a mission, but this kid seems all right.

Reid, you seem pretty cool.

REID: 
[Sarcastic] Wow.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
REID: 
How’re the bees and the apiary, Rory?

RORY: 
Oh. Yes. Just up the road, a couple of farmers let me see them.

REID: 
Rory in the apiary how many bees will they see?

RORY: 
Six.

RORY: 
The beekeeper and her son, the beekeeper’s son, were very nice to me.

REID: 
Oh,(soft) how old are um –

RORY: 
Yes, Mr. Reid, he is your age. 

REID: 
Is he –

RORY: 
I think he's cute, yes.

REID: 
(Very quiet) I'm so gay, Rory…

RORY: 
I know, Mr. Reid. I know.

[RORY pats him on the back. It makes a heavy THUNK noise.]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Roz Harrison, regarding the corporation, Crown Scientific. Original statement given 19th December, 2016. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist.

Statement begins.

ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): 
Okay, maybe I shouldn’t be here. Maybe I should just go. I could get in a lot of trouble over this.

Okay. It’s been a long time since I’ve actually had any sort of control over where I’ve been going these days, but I’m here. For now.

But it’s been nice, actually. I get to work, and people are always friendly to me. The workplace is so big, half the time I don’t even know why I’m doing what I am. Most of the time I do kind of two things - stare at a computer and copy numbers into a spreadsheet, and make photocopies.

It all seems pretty pointless to me, to be honest. I don’t know what we’re doing, but I think it must be illegal. I’m not even sure how we’re in business.

I should probably try and explain things to you in more detail.

There’s something really suspicious about how the numbers are coming? Someone must have been doing something to prevent any patterns from emerging, and I can’t find any obvious context for the information. It’s maddening, even if it isn’t illegal, it’s insane.

Okay, so, anyway, the last job, I was not up there, but it was all very strange. I mean, they call it “crew recall”, I mean, I still don’t really know what exactly happened, but I know not everyone made it back in one piece, and the company has no record of it.

There are rumors that the company was sued over the deaths of two people: Piotr Kuznetsov and Marta Andreas. According to a friend of mine, they were completely mangled when they found them.

Well, I can’t prove that either way, but I can say this: when they found the remains of the doomed spacecraft, they didn’t like it enough the scratch it from the record.

ARCHIVIST: 
Statement ends.

(sigh) Roz Harrison. Another completely fabricated statement from them. Not to mention, last time they tried to stab me.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ROZ:
Roswell Harrison! Good to meet you!

REID:
Oh, uh. Hi.

ROZ:
…

Now you're supposed to tell me your name.

REID:
[very embarrassed] Oh yes, right, sorry, sir –

ROZ:
Don't call me that.

REID:
[staring at his feet] Oh, ok. Won't happen again. Um. Reid. Reid is me, I'm Reid.

ROZ:
[enthusiastically] Pleasure to make your acquaintance, Reid!

[ROZ SHAKES REID's HAND VIGOROUSLY. REID YELPS.]
ROZ:
[considering] Loose grip. We'll work on that. Like your shirt.

REID: [softened] Oh! Thanks!


[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Kingston if you hurt Reid again I will make you wish you could die

REID: 
That’s not… why couldn’t you –

KINGSTON: 
I’m not going to hurt you, Reid. You’ve been through enough.

REID: 
(soft) I wish you would.

KINGSTON: 
Puppy.

REID: 
I’m sorry.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
KINGSTON: 
Ah, there you are Puppy. I've missed you. Did you miss me?

[Reid takes a second to look at him]

REID: 
Oh, yes, sir…

Can I hug you?

KINGSTON: 
Of course.

REID: 
[hugging, soothing] Come on, come on.

KINGSTON: 
Feels like you’ve gone a bit soft.

REID: 
Oh yes, yes, I’ve just had a big lunch, sir.

KINGSTON: 
I see.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Roz Harrison, regarding Crown Scientific, human experimentation, and spiders. Statement recorded direct from subject 9th October, 2017. Statement begins.

ROZ (STATEMENT): 
Thank you all for coming. It’s been a while –

ARCHIVIST: 
Harrison.

ROZ: 
[Broadly] I did not come here for a fight. I came to deliver a message.

ARCHIVIST: 
You’re sure you didn’t come here for a fight?

ROZ: 
I came to deliver a message. And you’re going to listen.

ARCHIVIST: 
Yeah…

ROZ: 
You missed me.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[FLASHBACK] NICK: Reid, I-

[SOUND OF HUGGING]
I’m not going anywhere.

REID: 
[Wheezing] Yes you are.

NICK: 
I… uh… I’m not going to leave you, though.

REID: 
[Wheezing, distressed] Yes you are!

NICK: 
[High-strung giggling] I’m coming back to you, puppy. I’m not sure you would have liked it there anyway.

[CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR; REID GASPS AND RETCHES]
REID: 
[Wheezing, distressed] Oh god… Oh god, I, I’m sorry…

[DOOR OPENS]
MICHAEL: 
Hello, Reid.

REID: 
[Whispering] Help me?

MICHAEL: 
I’m Michael.

REID: 
[Whispering] Please help me?

MICHAEL: 
Actually, I’m not Michael. Bye.

[DOOR CLOSES]
[HEAVY EXHALATION]
REID:
[Whispering] [I am sorry] What the fuck was that?

REID:
Wow... What a day.

REID:
Whatever.

REID:
I don’t even know where I am.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[REID TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
REID: 
Hello?

SIMON: 
(cheerfully) Good to meet you.

GRANT: 
…

(pleasantly surprised) Hm. You’re different.

REID: 
Yes, I, uh… I’m different.

SIMON: 
Amos!

GRANT: 
Dude! I mean, you don’t work for the Magnus Institute, right?

REID: 
Oh! Yes, I… I’m an engineer, I guess.

SIMON: 
Oh, lovely! So, what do you do?

REID: 
Oh! Um… I, I make… I don’t know…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
MARTIN: 
[Softly] I dunno. Love isn’t difficult. It’s… easy, it’s the easiest thing in the world.

REID: 
Easy? Is it?

MARTIN: 
[Exhales heavily] Yeah. As easy as breathing.

REID: 
[Softly] I… then why do I feel like I’m suffocating?

MARTIN: 
Um, Reid, let’s talk about this, actually.

REID: 
[Heavy sigh] Fine.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

REID: 
[sarcastic] Well, there you go.

ARCHIVIST:
Ah, uh, were you crying?

REID:
No, I, I was just… I was, I was just a bit overwhelmed.

ARCHIVIST:
I’m sorry.

REID:
[huff] I feel like I’m being buried alive under a mountain of mild responsibility. I’m running out of places to go.

ARCHIVIST:
[chuckles] Well, there are always other ways to deal with it.

REID:
Not really.

ARCHIVIST:
I see.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
reid will you write a poem about loneliness for me?

REID: 
[Flips through pages] Um.

[HE READS.]
You should really see a therapist, he says,

Because you're not the same person I knew.

He likes watching Dr. Phil yell at people on T.V.

And saying things like 'you're gonna regret this when you get older,'

When he means 'you should be more like me.'

I’m gonna tell you a secret:

Some days the only thing I can remember

Is waking up on my own.

Retract my fronds on all sides,

You can't judge me until I am whole again.

MARTIN: 
I don’t judge you.

[REID YELPS]
REID: 
Jesus! Who the fuck are you?

MARTIN: 
I, uh - I don’t know him, sorry.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[HEAVY EXHALATION OVER SLOW, DEEP TONES.]
REID (STATEMENT): 
My name is Reid Jackson. I’ve got to be, I think, I’m so tired, so worn. But I don’t think I want to stop. I…

[TAPE CLICKS OFF.]
[INT. THE MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON’S OFFICE]
[TAPE CLICKS ON.]
[THE DOOR OPENS.]
ARCHIVIST: 
I’m sorry?

[REID STEPS OUT INTO THE HALLWAY.]
REID: 
(very hoarse) I’m alright, actually. Bye.

ARCHIVIST: 
Reid, do you want to sit down?

REID: 
Where’d I put my things?

[Reid takes a seat, slightly embarrassed] Ahoy.

ARCHIVIST: 
Uh -

REID: 
(he takes a breath): I just, I don’t feel quite right. There’s more I need to tell you. Uh…

ARCHIVIST: 
Sure. When you’re ready.

REID: 
Can I tell you about Nick?

ARCHIVIST: 
Oh, uh, yes.

REID (STATEMENT): 
Nick is a good friend of mine. I like to think of him as a friend, at least.

We weren't close, you know. Used to work together, and he’d always been there for me when I needed a friend.

Bust um, he’s different, right? Um, I’m, I’m worried. This ‘cause he’s nice? I mean, was, right? It’s, it’s complicated, there’s no easy way to say it, but… he’s very… very cute. And I like him.

[HE’S STILL STUCK.]
[HE STARTS LOOKING THROUGH SOME OF THE ARCHIVIST’S PAPERS]
ARCHIVIST: 
I didn’t understand any of that.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of Nick Utter on his feelings for Reid Jackson, transcribed from a statement given at Crown Scientific, December 31st, 2016.

NICK (STATEMENT):
[FAINTLY]
I’m not going to lie to you. I can’t even remember what he looks like. I don’t know if he’s beautiful like the sun or all ragged and ugly and barely there like a black hole. It doesn’t matter. I barely remember my own name or whether I was married or divorced, whether I had children…

What is he? What is Reid Jackson to me?

I remember him. Because I remember he was so kind. When I told him I wanted to go, he went to bat for me.

It’s big out there, it’s dark, and it swallows. There’s a lot of bad things you can do there. You get a lot of time to think.

“It can’t reach you now,” he told me. “You’re safe here.”

And I wanted him to be right.

…

You were saying?

NICK (STATEMENT):
[Bitter laugh] I was just saying to myself, Apogee and perigee. You know them? I was just saying to myself, isn't that funny? Good people. Good people do bad things to each other. And I’d always wondered about that. Ever the optimist. Candide. But, you know, it doesn’t really matter. None of it.

You can’t help people, can you? To be honest, I’m bad at math.

[Bitter laugh]

[Chuckle]

I hope he has a good life, Reid, I hope he takes care of himself, I hope lives to be a hundred and never loses anyone he loves. I hope his dog has puppies. I hope people tell him they love him every day, and I hope someone he loves is always there to remind him to say it back. I hope he eats cake. I hope he’s happy. I hope he can be.

And… I hope he doesn’t forget me.

I’d like to leave behind something other than my name on a list.

…

And, you know, I hope it’s not all just hurt and silence in the end.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Statement of the Henhouse, regarding Walter M. Henning on the day Marcellus passed away.

[HENHOUSE-TYPE HUMMING]
[THE STATEMENT IS WEARILY GIVEN]
My dearest, are you sure you want to hear this?

Well, when Marcellus passed away, it was a very long time since he'd been very well. It just kind of… rolled over him.

It happened in the night. There was a strange sort of peace to it, as though the whole world had quieted down for a moment. There was no drive or intent, no will behind it. He simply was and then he wasn’t.

This is all.

And then… Walter woke up alone.

And he was sad, and he was thirsty. So he went to the water pump, and he put his head under the pump. And he let the water pour over his hair and onto his face, and he let it fill his mouth and wash out all of his sadness.

And he stood there in the water, and he thought about the world and what it was and what it was like now that Marcellus was gone. And he thought about everything, and he thought about nothing, and he was still thirsty.

And he looked up and he saw the clouds, and he knew that they were made of water and that one day they were going to be rain again. He knew that the air was full of water and that the plants were made of water and that all the animals and all the people were made of water, too. He looked down and he saw his wet feet, and then he looked up at the clouds again, and he laughed.

This is all.

After that, we put Marcellus back into the ground. We did that, and we ached for a while. And after that, we talked and sang, and he was in the stories we told, and he was in the songs we sang. And we remembered how he looked and all the things he did, and we remembered his laughter, and we missed him because he was gone.

And we were sad.

And then we started our lives again without him.

This is all.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
tell us about your youtube channel kelley!

KELLEY: 
My name is Kelley and I make some videos. They are medium-length videos that are funny, sometimes shocking, and always totally rad, about the paranormal. I try to get people excited about the paranormal and stories surrounding it.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
hey, reid, what’s the name of that deliveryman we saw earlier?

REID: 
Don’t… ask me, I don’t know him.

ARCHIVIST: 
[Serious, drawn] Delivery man? What delivery man?

REID: 
Yeah, dunno. Something like Kelley? Weird hair, lots of freckles, super nice? They look like a delivery man, anyway.

ARCHIVIST: 
[Really taken aback] Oh…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Wait, Reid. Is your deliveryman Kelley Cooper? The person who runs the Youtube The Spooky News?

[Reid takes a moment to look him up on Youtube.com]
REID: 
(humorless, given his situation) Oh, I, uh… Yes. It's all a bit, uh… It’s all a bit embarrassing. I feel like I shouldn’t be seeing this. Hm.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Kelley, Reid knows about your YouTube channel :)

KELLEY: 
What? Reid the Depressed Cadet, who does the voices? Oh! Are they all right?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Kelley, how weird is your hair? What does it look like?

KELLEY: 
What a question. It's kind of pink right now. Like an anemone?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

KELLEY: Hello and welcome to The Spooky News! I'm your host Kelley Cooper! Our top story tonight

is the biggest haunted house in Britain, which is in Manchester at Wilton Road. With 200 rooms and 4 stories, this place is as big as a shopping center. It was built in the 1800's as a hospital, but in the 21st century it has been abandoned and forgotten for years. That was until last week, when we decided to have a look around and, well, you're about to see for yourself what happened.

Here's my partner in crime, Devon, who will be explaining the situation to us tonight. They say that in the last week alone they’ve got 6,000 emails from people wanting us to go check this house out and investigate.

So, Devon, what’s so spooky about the Wilton Road Hospital?

DEVON: 
It’s just… just a hospital. Like I said, it’s just a hospital. Sure, it’s creepy looking from the outside, but inside it’s all normal. It even still has the old hospital beds and stuff and it’s just empty. I mean, but how come nobody’s been in here for so long?

KELLEY: 
Well, everybody else is too scared, is why. They’re saying that if you go inside Wilton Road Hospital and spend any time there then bad things happen. There have been reports of owners seeing a big black dog lurking around the hospital and there have been reports that the dog isn’t any normal one and that it’s a big mean evil one. I’ve heard reports of things flying around and I’m not just talking about the dust and the cobwebs. I’m talking about things like bed sheets, books, and even a wheelchair!

DEVON: 
(laughs) Yeah, I’d be scared if my chair just started moving on its own.

KELLEY: 
Hmmm… even the chair moving by itself isn’t the scariest thing of all. Some stories say that those who have entered the hospital have heard screaming, but that’s not the case for us yet…

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

Kelley, are you GNC?

KELLEY: 
Am I? Sometimes people are like, “You seem GNC.” I’m like, “Thanks. It’s because I’m reading a lot of poetry to Steve Zissou, my mannequin roommate.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Kelley and Devon, what’s the most fun episode of The Spooky News that you’ve recorded?

DEVON: 
Oh, uh… Yeah, it was called ‘Operation Olive Garden.’ We went to Olive Garden.

KELLEY: 
Really? That’s your favorite?

DEVON: 
(soft) Yeah, because it was after the restaurant closed so we got to sit there for a long time and just talk. It was nice.

KELLEY: 
It was a haunted Olive Garden.

DEVON: 
Yes. And there was… that’s- it was like going on a date with a ghost.

KELLEY: 
I don’t think we met her.

DEVON: 
I think you’re just jealous.

KELLEY: 
Jealous?

DEVON: 
Yeah.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
[Image Description: A screenshot from an episode of The Spooky News. Kelley is dressed as a clown. Devon is seen in a blue jumper with a picture of a duck on it. In one hand they hold a square and sharp knife, and pose the question, “What’s better than an exorcism?” Kelley is seen laughing.]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Devon can you please explain this screenshot from The Spooky News? Why are you holding a knife and asking what's better than an exorcism? Why is Kelley dressed as a clown? What episode is this from?

DEVON: 
That’s from way back in 2016. It’s a Halloween episode of Spooky News. He wanted to dress up for the show and I didn’t. We were talking about horror movies “What’s better than an exorcism? Two exorcisms!”

KELLEY: 
[Cackles] Our chemistry was off the hook back then.

DEVON: 
[Genuinely hurt] What about the chemistry now?

KELLEY: 
Only getting better, my friend. Like a fine wine.

DEVON: 
[Flustered] Oh. Okay.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Devon, how did you and Kelley meet?

DEVON: 
Oh, well, well, he and I sort of… developed a bit of a crush on each other. Not in a romantic way, I think, but there was something that we both saw in each other and… and we wanted it. I worked at this cafe, and he would come in, like, every day to get coffee. And I’d watch him read comics, and we’d chat for a while. He seemed really sweet and intelligent… and I could tell he was actually listening to me when we talked. And, yeah.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Kelley do you wanna be friends with Reid? Maybe invite him on your show or just to hangout?

KELLEY: 
(chuckling slightly) Well, I’ve been thinking about saying something, but I think… (deep breath) I don’t think he really cares for me. Like, today I saw them in the lobby and I was like “Hey!” And he was like, “Oh, hey,” and kept walking really fast and looked away.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Sorry if this is an intrusive ask, devon, but what does your wheelchair look like? Do you have stickers on the wheels or have special colours on it, ect?

DEVON: 
Oh! Uh, I, uh… it's ok, I don't mind your question. Er, I think it looks… uh… uh, like a wheelchair. It's manual and it's blue and it's got covers on the wheels I made myself.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

[Image description: Devon appears to be a person in their mid-twenties, wearing a tshirt of a band who sold out ages ago, and a blue cardigan with a nervous sort of energy to them. They are chubby, and their ears stick out from their messy brown hair. They are usually dressed in knitwear.}

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
ARCHIVIST:
Why?

REID: 
Because… it’s fucked up. Like, like beyond fucked up. [Deep exhalation] Bad.

ARCHIVIST: 
[DEEP EXHALATION] Reid, are you going to tell us what's going on?

REID: 
[Significantly less shrill] What, what… Mr. Sims…

[SOUND OF REID spinning around in a swivel chair for approximately two minutes.]
ARCHIVIST: 
Please stop.

[REID INHALES AS IF HE WAS TO BE REWOUND; COUGHS UP A BOLUS OF BLACK WRITHING SPIDERS. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]
ARCHIVIST: 
Well, then. Um… are you all right?

REID: 
[dryly] Yeah. Yeah, I’m - I’m not feeling so well.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
If reid does the voices does that mean he's a guest speaker on the spooky news sometimes??

REID: 
[Nervous laugh] Uh… no. God, he told you about that, huh? I just… sometimes I do voices and, like, sound effects when I’m alone, that's all. I can’t shut myself off. I’m like a radio. I’m just always on.

REID: 
This is really embarrassing. 

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Jon, there is no easy way to say this but Reid's boss at crown scientific is horrible to him. Has poured hot tea over his head. I would recommend getting Gerry to take him back to his ranch, given he isn't safe at all at Crown Scientific.

ARCHIVIST: 
Hot tea?

REID: 
It wasn’t that hot.

ARCHIVIST: 
God.

REID: 
Oh, there are worse things that can happen to a scientist than getting their hair wet. Like, you know, some people get burned with… uh… acid.

[COUGHING SOUNDS]
ARCHIVIST: 
[Frustratedly] Reid, what?

REID: 
I could have been eaten by lions! I did not slide into a non-correlated fifth dimensional causality plane! I was not transformed into a giant spider! I was not a religious vessel for alien souls! It was a hot tea shower, man. It was hot. It was hot tea and it got some hair wet.

ARCHIVIST: 
What?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
No, Jon, you don't understand. We're trying to keep Reid away from his abuser. He thinks he wants to go back but he's just going to get hurt.

ARCHIVIST: 
[holds up his hand] Sorry. I’m just trying to…

[REID SHUFFLES ANGRILY.]
REID: 
[strained] Well, you said I could leave.

ARCHIVIST: 
[exhales heavily] I did, but I want you to be safe, buddy.

REID: 
Yes, and I’m begging you.

ARCHIVIST: 
I… uh… I’m worried.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]

OG!Elias self care day this is an order

ELIAS: 
[Pained] I am sorry?

MARTIN: 
I’m scheduling you a self care day right now. You’re getting super annoying!

ELIAS: 
I am. Is. That. What.s. Going. On.

MARTIN: 
Yes. There’s too much Elias in my Elias cup. I’m just like, “No more Elias!” Go do something Elias would do, like fly a kite, or like, you know, take a cheese tour! I don't know! Aaargh! What do you even want?

ELIAS: 
Oh, to be honest, Martin, I just want to be Jonah.

[MARTIN SIGHS.]
MARTIN: 
Hey, Elias. Why do you want that?

ELIAS: 
It’s easy. Like sleeping.

MARTIN: 
Yeah, but I mean it’s not you.

ELIAS:  
Am I required to reside within the physical vehicle for the entirety of this day?

MARTIN: 
Yes.

ELIAS: 
[Strained] Okay, then.

MARTIN: 
Thank you.

ELIAS: 
[To Himself] I’m stuck with you today. Oh, I cannot wait.


Og! Elias, how was your self care day? What did you do?

ELIAS: 
It was exhausting. The more I am the body, the more I care. The caring is a tremendously intense experience.

ARCHIVIST: 
[sigh] …Yeah. What did you do?

ELIAS: 
Oh. I. Did. So. Many. Things.

ARCHIVIST: 
Okay. What did you do?

ELIAS: 
I… experienced a platonic embrace -

ARCHIVIST: 
I… I don’t… never mind -

ELIAS: 
Ah. Of course.



does og!elias is gay?

ELIAS: 
I mean, look away now, look at me now. Quite gay.

MELANIE: 
[Abruptly] Right…

ELIAS: 
Um, will you please look away now?

MELANIE: 
Will you shut up about that. I’m really not in the mood.

[ELIAS BEGINS TO STEP BACK]
ELIAS: 
I… about what?

MELANIE: 
The pathetic little baby act. How you pretend you care.

ELIAS: 
Please, Miss King –

ELIAS (JONAH): 
– That’s quite amusing, actually.



og elias i care you

Avatar
ELIAS: 
I am terribly sorry if I have disturbed you, John, I was just going to let you know I’m leaving.

ARCHIVIST: 
[Disbelievingly] …I… I, um. There’s really no need to tell me, I trust you.

ELIAS: 
Ah, okay. As you wish.

[DOOR CLOSES]



*hands og!elias weed*

ELIAS: 
Oh… uh… thank you, Mr. Bright, but I don’t think we should be doing that now.


Hey melanie are you aware that elias and jonah are two people in the same body??? Og elias isnt jonah, jonah just stole his body

MELANIE: 
Oh. Well, that’s… that’s stupid.

ELIAS (JONAH): 
It is?

MELANIE: 
So is he dead?

ELIAS (JONAH): 
Do you think he’s dead?

MELANIE: 
I…

ELIAS (JONAH): 
Do you?

MELANIE: 
I think so.


*shouts into a megaphone*
MR. OG ELIAS BOUCHARD,
I CARE YOU!!!!!
ELIAS: 
(overlapping) Oh, what now? (softer) Look, [just] please don’t shout too loud.

HELEN: 
Oh, oooh… Oh, you got awkward.

ELIAS: 
No, I… No, I get it; it’s - it’s just -

HELEN: 
Writhe.

ELIAS: 
Yes. Well -

HELEN: 
Do you recognize your own voice? The one that just drifts and disappears into thin air, gone forever?

ELIAS: 
I - I don’t know?

HELEN: 
I know.



Abot show me the OG!Elias and Marcus interaction

ARCHIVIST: 
Uh… what?

GRANT: 
[overlapping] Jesus. I’ll be… darned.

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST: 
Sorry?

GRANT: 
I’d never have guessed he could be so gentle.

ARCHIVIST: 
Um… no, I… I don’t think so.

GRANT: 
You’ve never seen him with his son?

ARCHIVIST: 
He’s not his son.

GRANT: 
[seriously] Jonathan! I expected better of you, of all people.

[SLIGHT PAUSE.]
ARCHIVIST: 
[huff] I don’t know what you’re getting at.

GRANT: 
Fine! Just keep doing what you were doing.

[GRANT WALKS OFF. THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS.]



jonah, og elias, what's the worst food crime each of you have committed?

ELIAS: 
I… uh… [nervous laugh] food crimes? Um… I have had a certain affinity for chewy granola cereal bars, which are such a sad, sad substance. Oh, and any and cakes… whoosh!

ARCHIVIST: 
You, er… I once saw him eat like a entire cake in one sitting at a bake sale… like, legitimately, it was just a bit surreal.

ELIAS: 
I would say my worst food crime would be like a, uh, 90‘s incarnation of myself who - God… augh! I made these vegan enchiladas out of pinto beans and rice for every meal until one point where I couldn‘t do that anymore. I combined like an entire loaf of bread with a jar of peanut butter and some jelly and no utensil. Just shoved it all into my mouth. It was disgusting.

ARCHIVIST: 
Jonah eats his cereal with ranch dressing.

ELIAS:
I see.


Og!Elias, do you like tea?

ELIAS: 
Oh! Yes, I do.

MARTIN: 
Just give me a second.

MARTIN: 
There you are.

ELIAS: 
[Confused, but excited] Oh, [now fully animated] oh, oh, thank you!

MARTIN: 
It’s not a big deal. It’s just a cup of tea.

ELIAS: 
I know, but… I just want you to know –

[MARTIN EXHALES LOUDLY]



og Elias, would you like to dance?

ELIAS: 
I would like to dance, but the floor is slippery and I have a bad back and I cannot dance well and Jonah would not care for it.


OG Elias, wanna go get high? I think you could use some time, just chilling and making a friend.

ELIAS: 
Oh, sure, and how’s that gone for you?

MARTIN: 
[Stunned] Oh… the drugs or the friendship?

ELIAS: 
Both?

MARTIN: 
You sure you don’t just want to hang out?

ELIAS: 
[CHUCKLE] The thought of being socially inept makes me want to destroy myself.

MARTIN: 
Oh. I… I don’t want to see you destroy yourself.

ELIAS: 
Bye-bye Martin.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Hey Kelley? Reid is in a really bad living situation right now. If you can, could you maybe help him out?

KELLEY: 
I’m… I’m sorry? I didn’t know. I thought your work paid for your apartment.

REID: 
Oh. Yeah. It does.

KELLEY: 
So what do you need?

REID: 
(inhale) It’s complicated. Not your problem. I’m staying with a friend.

KELLEY: 
(softer) Right. Let me know if I can help at all. I care about you, okay?

REID: 
(faint disgust) Yeah.



I’m glad you’re trying to leave crown scienctific reid. I’m proud of you :)

REID: 
(tearful) I - I didn’t - It’s scarier when you refer to it like that. (long, shudder) Although, I guess - (unable to make words) I-I shouldn’t have -

[CALMING SELF HUGS]
REID: 
I… uh… I think I’m going to go have a cigarette. Go lie on that couch for a while. Watch some TV. See you.



Kelley, Reid does like you he just has trouble trusting people because he's been through a lot. Just be patient with him.

KELLEY: 
Yeah. You got it.

[Reid gets a kick out of this.]

REID: 
Kay fine, you got it? Fine. You got, you got it.



Hey Devon & Kelley, what's the story behind the cerberus logo for the Spooky News?

KELLEY: 
Oh, it’s just a logo.

DEVON: 
I like dogs. ALL OF THEM.

[Devon is shown here smiling]

KELLEY: 
They like dogs. We’re very pro-dog in this household.

DEVON: 
[Schnauzer sympathetic] Oh!



Kelley, do you live with Devon?
KELLEY: 
No, I don’t.

DEVON: 
[whisper] That’d be so nice.

KELLEY: 
You can come over and visit anytime you want.

DEVON: 
I would make you breakfast everyday.

[SOUND OF KELLEY BEING PATIENT]
KELLEY: 
Devon, you can relax.

DEVON: 
Sorry.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Wait, Reid, are you back at Crown Scientific?

REID: 
(soft) Oh, I, yes. I’m back in my lab, although I, uh… I’m not. I’m just getting my stuff, sir.

KINGSTON: 
Okay. (soft) So you’re okay.

REID: 
Yes! This place is my lab, and you are my boss. I’m very glad you’re here, sir, I just can’t stay.

[FURTHER FOOTSTEPS AS KINGSTON TAKES SEVERAL STEPS FORWARD.]
KINGSTON: 
I’m gonna get something to eat. Do you like pancakes, puppy?

REID: 
(fond) Yeah.

KINGSTON: 
Well, I’ll let you have two.

[Kingston prods Reid’s abdomen with his foot. Reid makes a high-pitched noise.]

REID: 
(torn between rage and helplessness) That sounds... nice.

KINGSTON: 
Yes. It is.

REID: 
Actually, we can do it another day.

KINGSTON: 
(soft) Another day. I would hurry, though, if I were you.

[THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN.]
[CLICK]
[CLICK]

Jon, darling, do you know that you are loved?

ARCHIVIST: 
I - I don’t know… Hm… probably.

[LOVELY LAUGH]
MARTIN: 
[Softly] Okay. So, do you know that this is safe here? Do you know that whatever you feel, whatever comes up, it’s okay to feel it? Do you know that I’m not going to hurt you, or make you feel bad about what you feel, or what you say? It’s just you and me. We’re having a conversation, and – and I’m here to listen.

[THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH.]
MARTIN: 
Do you want to tell me what you’re feeling?

ARCHIVIST: 
[Very quietly] Oh. I feel a little bit claustrophobic. And I feel nervous and weird. And I’m a little bit worried that I’m going to cry if you keep touching me or if I have to look at you.

MARTIN: 
Touching you?

ARCHIVIST: 
I - I sort of like - I like being touched.

MARTIN: 
Go on.

ARCHIVIST: 
I - I like - I like how you’re holding onto me right now, but it’s so overwhelming and, like, I feel like I’m about to cry, but it’s not because it’s sad. It’s just like I’m - I love you and I’m just overwhelmed by how much of you there is and how little of me there is. Like, where am I going to go? I’m just going to disappear inside of you. And I’m going to be gone. And I’m going to just be a part of you. And I love you, but I don’t want to be you.

MARTIN: 
[Softly] You’re making me sound like a - like a black hole. I’m not going to swallow you up. I won’t do that.

ARCHIVIST: 
No, it’s the opposite! You’re like a sun or something. I feel like - like a little piece of space dust or something. I feel like I’m getting closer to you and closer to you and one day it’s just going to be only you. You are so you. All the stuff I am isn’t really me. It’s just stuff that could be you. And I don’t want that. I want to be me.

[MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH
MARTIN: 
What do you - (sigh) What do you want me to do?

ARCHIVIST: 
I don’t know.

MARTIN: 
Ok. You don’t have to know.

ARCHIVIST: 
[Nervous laugh] Right. I… uh… I think I want to lie down.

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Who is Frankie Zhou?

MELANIE: 
Oh, uh, she’s, she’s been around for a while.

ARCHIVIST: 
I haven’t seen her in years. I thought she died.

MELANIE: 
No, no, she still works in the library.

ARCHIVIST: 
I… I don’t think she does.

MELANIE: 
What is wrong with you?

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
Martin, you should talk to Jon and Tim about how you're feeling.

MARTIN: 
[Very quietly] I… uh… I’m okay.

PETER: 
[dismissively] I’m sure he’s going to be very supportive.

As for me… Let’s talk about how I'm feeling right now. I’m, I’m super busy, and, and I’m sad. But I don’t think I mentioned it, so.

MARTIN: 
[whispering] I think you did.

PETER: 
And I think it’s important we don’t forget, y’know, you’re not the only one who has a big problem right now. My life is so hard. It’s hard to be me. I’m the hardest on myself, which is why I have such high standards. And, y’know, speaking of which, the other day I was going out for drinks with, er, who I thought was a friend of mine. And, it turns out, this person was just using me for my love and warmth. Which, ugh, how inconsiderate!

MARTIN: 
[sigh] Right.

PETER: 
As I mentioned, I am very busy at the moment. This is not a good time for niceties, is it?

MARTIN: 
[Bitter laugh] Right.

PETER: 
There is something very wrong with you. I need to take some time to get away and distance myself from your negativity.

MARTIN: 
[spills coffee on Peter’s shoes]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
statement of Martin Blackwood regarding his date with Tim Stoker

MARTIN (STATEMENT): 
Well, this is, uh… Holy shit man oh my god. Tim Stoker. Right, I know, I know, I know. Tim Stoker. It’s a…

It’s a- I mean, it’s a name, isn’t it? Tim Stoker. Tim Stoker is a name. He’s just-

He’s just a guy, yeah. He’s just a fella. Tim Stoker. I mean sure I mean sure you’ve heard of him haven’t you? Of course you have. Who lives in the world, okay? A guy who lives in the world. I mean, he walks around and he goes, “Hey, Martin, what are you doing tonight?” and I say, “Um, I don’t know, haven’t thought about it,” but really, I’m thinking, “Oh, the box set of Firefly,” and this guy goes, “Okay, I’ll come round then,” and I’m like, “Cool,” but, actually it’s not cool because I wanted to watch Firefly, but you know? You can't say, “Tim, sorry, but the one thing I want to do this evening is sit in front of the TV and watch a box set of a TV show that was cancelled after 13 episodes,” so I said, “yes”.

And he’s like, “Thank you.” Wait. No, he doesn’t just say that. He does that, “Thank you.” Like some sort of subtly magical thing. I mean, I-I feel like I know him, but… but he doesn’t know me. And that’s like, like a, a very specific thing that, like…

Anyway he comes round, and he's like, “Oh, I could use a beer. Do you have any beer?” And I go, “No, I don't have any beer,” and he goes, “That’s okay,” and I go, “I have V8,” and he goes, “Oh, okay, do you have any vodka?” And I go, “No, I have V8.” And he’s like, “Ten-four, good buddy.” I go, “I don’t really drink.” and he goes, “That’s cool.” I go, “It’s really not.” So he says, “What do you want to do tonight?” and I said, “I don’t know, I didn’t have anything planned.” and he says, “Well, how about we go to the park and feed the ducks.” I say, “It’s too cold.” and he goes, “Okay, what do you want to do?” and I said, “I don’t know,” and he says, “What would you like to do?” and I said, “I really just want to sit in and watch some TV,” and he goes, “That sounds good. I’m just going to stare at you anyway,” and I go, “Okay,” and he leans over- and I kiss him you know how sometimes you lean over and you kiss somebody or they kiss you and it just feels right? It’s not like, “Oh shit, I need to make this quick because I’m baking a cake,” it’s not like that at all, it’s just… [nervous laugh]

[CLICK]
[CLICK]
hope, when did you know breekon was the one?

Avatar
HOPE: 
(small laugh, a bit too pronounced) They always were. We were built to be together, like this.

[Hope holds up two hands, palms open and pressed together.]

HOPE: 
But I do remember the first time I knew I loved him. He had been a strange and brilliant creature, but sometimes he seemed a tragedy. [gives a sly grin] He ate a chicken, just to see what it would do. Feathers stuck in his hair. He carried mortality around with him like a blessing. I loved him then because I wanted to wipe all the blood from his mouth and wash him clean.

It was different after that. That big, wild thing, he was mine first, and I too, wild and only his. The thrill was not the same as the fear, though. It was better.
